Basically, I was a controlled remote viewer for the military, retired in December of 1995
When the CIA basically declassified all of this, the news got out and I was working as
a beltway bandit for a company that paid me regular salary but charged the government
millions of dollars for a hundred dollar program.
And so driving into DC and out every day and all of a sudden people started calling
me, contacting me, saying they would like to take remote viewer training.
At the beginning, we were getting requests for training at the rate of from eight to
fifteen students a day. At some point, driving into the beltway in the road rage traffic
and all that, it dawned on me, maybe I don't have to make a living this way and so maybe
I can make a living doing what I really enjoy doing, which is the remote viewing and the
remote viewing training.
And so we developed Problem Solutions Innovations as a remote viewing company. I had had it
as a small data analysis company up until that time. The data analysis aspect is still
a very important part of PSI, but now what we're doing is we're collecting as much
data as we can about remote viewing and its applications in the real world about students
and their individual abilities, capabilities, strengths and weaknesses and so on.
And so we have all of this database management power behind the training and the work that
we're doing and it's marrying up very well.
Let me start out on this. When Paul asked me to do this very, very selective subject,
I said, you know, this would be fine. I didn't know how many people it would interest because
I don't know how many people out there are training. But I realized that for those people
who do the remote viewing sitting at home alone, they ask friends and neighbors to select
targets for them. And likely as not, you'll get back a picture of a painting and the painting
has within it a picture on the wall and that painting may have a painting of a painting
and or you may get back, someone may give you something that they think is really funny
and it's a Picasso piece of Picasso's artwork as your target. And if so, then you have found
out the hard way that there are some targets that are going to give you all kinds of problems.
And there are other targets that are going to be easy to view. It's nice to think that
you can become a remote viewer and remote view any target. In actual fact, it's not true.
Different targets have their own sort of remote viewing syndrome as to who can remote view
them, who can't, how hard they are to remote view and how easy. You take a remote viewer
who does excellent work with pictures and envelopes and then you put him to work for
the police and his first job is a missing child and that child they find is now chopped
up into about 50 pieces and spread over about five acres. That same viewer who does excellent
work may have an extremely difficult time with that target. And so, the title of this
is Selecting the Best Targets for Remote Viewer Training, Training or Education. Let
me go into the word training. There are some fallacies about the definition of remote viewing.
If you listen to the speakers up here, everyone has a different definition, slightly different
definition and everyone will have a slightly different definition of training. You will
hear speakers up here who will say that they have taken trained remote viewers and people
doing meditation or people who are natural psychics or something and that training doesn't
count because training doesn't matter. Training doesn't show that there's any improvement
of any kind or something like that. When the thing became declassified and remote viewing
became a public, a thing of public knowledge, all of a sudden people who had been crystal
ball psychics became crystal ball remote viewers. Palm readers became palm remote viewers.
I had a woman call me one time and say that her mother was the original remote viewer and
discovered remote viewing through the use of looking at tea leaves at the bottom of a
cup. It was her mother who had invented remote viewing. One of the problems is that when
somebody says, I used to train remote viewer, you have to say trained by whom, trained in
what and what were they trained in, how long were they trained, were they given two days
of training and puffed their professional or did they go through lengthy training that
requires years and years and years to what level were they trained and so on. When someone
says training doesn't work, you have to ask them. In fact, if someone says that, as soon
as the question period starts, ask them, oh, what training have you gone through that didn't
work? If they haven't gone through training and experienced it, then they're making judgments
on something they don't know. By the same token, you'll hear trainers say, oh, all those lab
guys, they're just doing stuff and that really didn't matter. The first question for them
is, oh, what lab experiments have you been in that didn't matter? Because the lab guys
are doing some really important work. They're finding out some very important stuff. The
guys who are teaching training are teaching it toward application, toward getting out
into the trenches and actually using it in a non-libratory situation. Russell was talking
about the unit and how he felt that we had probably found ways to overcome pollution
in front loading. No kidding. Do any of you all know about the great Christmas attack?
It was normal for us. You may hear people say that in the unit, we always worked double
blind. We never knew what the target was. Absolutely not true. There were rarely any
targets that what we didn't know that this was a hostage situation. This was a political
plans and intentions. This was looking for a warhead or something like that. We had
to learn, us guys in the trenches, we had to learn to go in with tons of pollution and
always go for the unknown. We had to figure if logic or spy in the sky satellites or anything
else could have answered this question, they wouldn't have come to the crazy psychics.
Dump the logic, dump everything else, let's go for the unknown, and yet we would go into
a session knowing this was a hostage, this was, you know, and so on. You'd go into a
session and they would say, okay, we're going to give you encrypted coordinates. By the
way, when you get to stage six, here's your map of Lebanon to see where the hostage is.
We had to work under those conditions, absolutely non-libratory conditions, and we had to work
that on a daily basis. When someone says remote viewing or even trained remote viewer, at
this point, you have to say, well, trained in what? In palm remote viewing, crystal ball
remote viewing, reading goat entrails remote viewing, or what? There's a large spread of
things that are called remote viewing. Someone yesterday asked the question as to whether
IRVA was going to set up standards. One of IRVA's self-appointed tasks is to set up standards
and qualifications. However, the field is such that right now, even the major players
in the field cannot agree on the standards because they can't agree on what remote viewing
is and isn't. Makes it very difficult. Right now, the whole field is in a state of flux.
Added to that, you have anti-training people and training people, plus you have trainers
who are out there saying, excuse me, oh, sorry about that. What's happened? Well, I wanted
to thank my wife for loaning me her computer. I don't know why she made backups beforehand.
Try rebooting the thing here. What do you know? Watch out for that cord from down. You have
one trainer saying, mine is the best way, and another trainer says, no, mine is the
best way, and another trainer says, no, mine is the best way. I would like to make an invitation
right now. Glenn, Wayne, Paul, other trainers, come to my house and take my course, and I'll
come to your house and take your course. Then we can know or we can at least be qualified
to say, I think mine is better or yours is better. I think that what we're going to find
is that all of the differences in the training are largely in our imagination or even more
in our advertising. One of the fallacies that has come up because of this thing where people
are talking about my training is better than your training, and ours is 100% accurate and
so on, is that another word has come into very fuzzy definition, and that is training.
One of the things that you'll find when you take formal CRV training, I hope you will,
is that we do not train you to be psychic. You know, Gaby said, well, everybody has their
own ability, and somebody who has difficulty playing chopsticks, we may not be able to
make them concert pianists and all that. That's true. Over your lifetime, you have had all
of those situations where you did something psychic and, oh, don't do that, you know,
you're going to go to hell for that, and you have had this beat down. We don't teach you
to be psychic. We help you learn to stop being not psychic, and there's a very big difference
there. We help you to learn, help you to teach yourself how to stop being non-psychic because
it's there. We just sort of free you up to use it. If you ask most of the remote viewers
in the unit, they'll tell you that they're extremely thankful to Ingo Swan for developing
the CRV method because it is what the protocol is, what gave them the ability. That's not
my case. I reported to the unit, and a few days after I was there, I was impatient, and
I said, okay, when do I learn this stuff? And skip that water, took me over to the other
building, and he sent me down in the front room into the operations building, sent me
down in the front room, and he said, okay, I want you to look around this room. Look
at the molding all the way around the room at the top and look around. And he said, I
don't care what you've been told anywhere in life, in this room, it's okay to be psychic.
The burden of years just fell off. The credit I give to my abilities I give to skip that
water. And so that's what I try to do. I try to teach you or try to help you learn to stop
being not psychic. Because of political problems and so forth in the field, in the area, most
of you know that I also have been running a thing called the assigned witness program.
We have divorced the assigned witness program from PSI because one of the things we realized
is that the talent that's out there, the natural talent, and the students from the other trainers,
from the other disciplines and all that, there's a lot of good people out there who can really
do some good work. But as long as the assigned witness program was attached to PSI, there
was that political thing in there. So we have made it a standalone organization, divorced
me from it, just for the purpose of getting rid of the politics. And we are now forming
the database, inviting each of the trainers to learn that standardized method of reporting,
which will allow them to work through the assigned witness program, to work with police
departments, archeologists, doctors, business people, research and development, scientific
research and development, so on. Well, thank you. And then as we go, we're going to, in
a backhanded manner, I guess, be standardizing much of the industry. And I hope in the process
we're going to get rid of all the politics and so on. Because of that, there are some
formats that PSI has already gone over to, to meet the assigned witness program, and
I'll be offering these same formats to anyone who wants them. It's not a requirement if
you want to use them, you can. One of the formats is in the selection of targets for
training. Now, there are three modes of remote viewing when it's actually put into practice.
One is training, one is practice, and the other is operations, real world. Get out there
in the trenches and find the kids. And so, in everything I'm talking about here, I want
you to understand that I'm not talking about your practice targets or whatever. I'm talking
about those targets which are meant for training, and training you to, to find different types
of things. Don't lock up. It works. One of the main problems most students have when
they first come for training is simply fear of failure. In fact, it has its own acronym
when you start setting things aside at the, at the very beginning, F-O-F, fear of failure.
They have a fear of lack of personal talent. Many people call me and say, well, I don't
want to spend that much money on the course if I don't know, I can't do it. And so, can
you assure me that I can do it? And the answer is no. I'm afraid I can't because I don't
know whether you can do it either. I just know that we haven't had anybody who hasn't
been able to improve. How far you can improve? Improve, I don't know. There's also a fear
of not knowing what to do. Here is where Ingos Juan and his protocol shines above everything
else. I'll get to this further on, but let me tell you a little story. I was going to
learn how to channel one time. One of the people in our unit was a channeler. She was
going to teach me how to channel. So she selected a target and she said, okay, get in touch
with your spirit guides. And I said, well, how do I do that? And she said, okay, well,
you don't know their name yet. They'll tell you their name. And so you just say spirit
guide, I welcome you into my session. And I said, okay, spirit guide, I welcome you into
my session. And she said, okay, now take the pen and put it to the paper and then just
let it happen. And I put the pen to the paper and nothing happened. And she said, okay,
ask your spirit guide for information. And I said spirit guide, please give me some information.
And she said, now put your pen back down and just let it happen. After about 20 minutes
of this, I finally got up and I said, look, I'm going to lunch. If it happens while I'm
gone, would you write it down? It just, you know, I have come to be, to firmly believe
that anytime an instructor tells you, I may make some enemies here, by the way, anytime
an instructor tells you, just let it happen. What they're really saying is, I don't know
what to tell you to do. It's not your problem. It's not your weakness. It's theirs. The
Inga Swan method at every point along the way has a specific thing for you to do. That
helped me learn remote viewing better than anything else because I'll tell you, it just
didn't happen otherwise. Comparing themselves to others and coming up short. We all do this.
We all do this all the time. In fact, we have found that, let's say, Tom, let's say you're
doing a session and I say, this is a really important target and this is so important,
I'm only giving this to you and Joe McGonagall. Guess what he's going to view? He's going
to view Joe's session because Joe's a great viewer. Well, Joe makes no bones about the
fact that he's wrong half the time. He only accesses the target 50% of the time. What
if this is one of those times when Joe misses the target? Tom will too because he is wanting
to find, he's got that impression that Joe is better than he is and therefore I'm compared
to me. I better find out what Joe wants. Now, he'll do this on a subconscious level. He
doesn't know he's doing it, but we've shown, we've tried this. We've gone through experiments
with this. We know that it happens. It's called telepathic overlay or in the terminology
we use, it's called the neighbor's cat. They always have the idea of what if I can't do
it? What if I screw up? In other words, one of the most main problems the student has
is self-image when they come in for training and therefore many of them just find they
don't come in for training. For those that can't read this, it says it's psychic advisor
final exam having premonitions that they were going to flunk the exam. Several students
walked out without even lifting a pencil. Many people who could be doing this and who
could be fantastically great at it have that human tendency to say, but what if I screw
up? Well, that makes you like every other remote viewer in the world. That's what happens
if you screw up. We'll give you another target and maybe later you won't. The human tendency
is we externalize success and we internalize failure. That is, you have a good session.
What do you think? Man, this stuff works great. You have a bad session. What do you think?
Man, I screwed that one up. I'm no good at this. I can't do this stuff. If you have a
good session, Ingo gets the credit. If you have a bad session, it's your own fault. We
beat ourselves to death doing this all the time. This is one of the aspects of human
nature which makes the education of remote viewers very difficult. There are aspects
of training itself which makes it even worse. The trainer. I will not use names because
actually I'm not thinking of any right now, but there are trainers in this field who let
me sum up all of my comments about them by saying they're training for their own glory
and notification, not for the students. Those trainers, don't go to them. Look before you
leap in this field of training. The students are the trainer's expectations. There are
many trainers who expect you to do professional quality work the first or second day. If
you don't, they'll say, well, you can't do this. Maybe I'll get somebody else. There
are students who expect the same thing. I had a student one time come to the class and
after the first day, she wanted to take over as the secretary of PSI and run the thing
and she would relieve me of training and she would take all of the basic classes and teach
all the basic classes from their own. I said, but you don't know how to remote view yet.
She said, well, I've been in it all day. This expectation, by the third day, when she was
having to actually score her targets and not getting hundreds, she actually went into our
living room and sat down and cried for about 30 minutes because she was so disappointed
in herself. Somehow she had failed. As it turned out, she's an excellent remote viewer, but
those expectations she came with had to be overcome.
Peripheral problems, there are peripheral problems to remote view and education. One
is attitude. I've had students come and pay the tuition just to come and show me that
it doesn't work. I'll admit it doesn't work the first day. I'll take the next three
days off and you go home. I'll keep the money. Religion. Now, the people who have the problems
with religion generally weed themselves out and they don't come. A history of self-doubt,
self-failure, and so on. Added to that, but not on this list, is a history of self-success.
We have found that one of the types of people who are very hard to train in CRV is natural
psychics who are really good at it. You go down on the Bourbon Street and here's this
jazz pianist who's playing along and has never taken a piano lesson in his life and is just
really good at it. You walk in and say, well, you've got to learn the scales. You'll be
out of there. The bouncer will kick you out because there are some people who do not need
training and there are some people for whom training is such a drag that what we've found
is that if we take a natural psychic who's very good at what they do, they tend to become
better psychics because they get more control over what they do, but they select out of
it what they need and they dump the rest, which is what they should do. They become
better psychics, but they never become CRV controlled remote viewers. They'll never sit
down and do the scoring of the data sheet and turn in their data sheets and do all that
paperwork and the numbers and everything else. Outside personal problems and situations,
we've had people come to class who had a death in the family right before the class or were
expecting a death in the family during the class or whatever, these problems make the
training situation even worse. Now, on all of these, well, except the trainer, the trainer
can do something about their own education, but on all of these others, there's really
nothing you as a trainer can do about it. However, there is one thing that you can do
about it and that's part of what I'm leading into the subject here and that is poor course
material and that's what I'm really wanting to talk about right now. Course material,
you've got the trainer who must know the subject thoroughly, who must be able to answer any
question the student has, or if you can't answer the question, be honest enough to say,
I don't know. Don't tap dance. Don't lie to the student just to look good. Must be able
to teach the student how to get out of pitfalls because they will fall into these pitfalls
when a student gives you a call and says, hey, this terrible thing just happened in my
session. What do I do? Know what to do. If not, you're not ready to teach it, okay? If
you can't help your student get out of these pitfalls, you're not ready to teach. Must
be able to match the tasking and targets to the student's training levels and abilities.
That is, when you have a student, all your students are not going to be the same, so
if you try to teach them all the same, you're not going to be very effective. Every student
is an individual and each one progresses at a different rate, different speed. You must
be able to show the student what to do with the information that they gain. Many teachers,
many who are sitting here, in fact, I hope they didn't diss me and not come, have the
remote viewing session and that's it. Yeah, you did well. They don't keep data. They don't
keep documentation. They don't keep track of a viewer's strengths and weaknesses. They
don't keep track of the individual viewer's needs and so forth. This is a lot of paperwork
for the teacher, but if the teacher doesn't do it, then maybe they should get a job doing
something else because, you know, they're not dedicated enough. You have to be able
to database to show the student how to do all the paperwork afterwards to do the reporting
and so on, but Paul asked me to do targets and so right now we're working on tasking
and targets. Tasking and targeting are very intermeshed because you task a person to
do this target, okay? You have to know what kind and level of tasking the individual student
needs. In order to do that, you have to know where they are in the learning curve. Do you
give a massively humongous, complex target to somebody on their first day of class? No.
Do you give a simple, simple target to somebody who's been doing this for 14 years? No. You
use your talent at the level where it exists. There was a study done not too long ago and
I took part in it and I got vegetation on a flat surface. Those were my gestalts, flat
surface, you know. And so I went into the sensory. Vegetation was green, smell like vegetables
and things like that. The flat surface was brown and I thought, that can't be it. And
so there was my stray cat. There was my AOL. That can't be it. That was it. And so I said,
well, I've got to find out more about this. The brown, flat surface must be land and the
vegetation must be grass. Therefore, and I went on and about an hour later, I finally
wound up with a target which was people crying at the Vietnam Memorial Wall and here was
the green grass of the mall and all of this. The actual target was a picture of a disparagus
on a cutting board. It was something you give to a student the first day. But I guess my
pride in my level or something, I thought, well, that can't be it. And sure enough, that
was it. And so my own stray cats made me miss the tasking. But when you give tasking for
training purposes, keep track of every student. Know where they are. Know where they are on
the growth curve. To do that, you need a database. Just as the assigned witness program database
is going to be open to all trainers and all viewers of all the different disciplines, we're
also going to offer the PSI database for the other trainers if they want to do databases.
We have the engine going. We have the database. We will not look into the other person's records.
It's not what we're there for. We just have the thing in place. We know that different
trainers need databases and capabilities and don't have them. Therefore, if you want the
databases and capabilities, let my wife know. We can put your students in the database, give
them passwords that only they can get to and they can help. They can start databases. You
can start accessing their records and it will help your students along this way. AWPs database
is also online and open to students and trainers alike. Okay. All of this and I finally get
around to targets. In order to match a target to a student's ability and level, you have
to have a way of knowing what the student's abilities and levels are. That means keep track
of your students do the databases. You have to know how to task toward that level. This
is one thing that I've found that teachers don't have a problem doing. When they find
out what level their student is at, they'll take out a stack of targets and they'll go
through and they'll say, no, no, no, yeah, this is the right one for that student. They
already know how to do that. That's not a problem. You have to have a way of selecting
the targets which were appropriate for that level. Many of the trainers that I've met
and talked with know that the students are at different levels, but they have never quantified
those levels and said, okay, let's do targets of this type for that level and so in order
to work this for the assigned witness program, we have developed a way that we're now using
at PSI and I'm going to just introduce that way to you. If you can come up with a better
way, we're open to suggestions. If you want to use this way, we'll provide you with everything
you need and hopefully get some standardization going in the field. First of all, we have
found out that you can separate targets by where the viewer has to put their most work.
You can also separate targets by the type of tasking you're going to give. Some viewers
overall may be good at remote viewing, but remote viewing violence, no, whereas the same
scene with nonviolence, they can remote view it and so you have to know the type of tasking
that a viewer can do. Describe the activity, the event, the location, an object person
and so on. You also can evaluate targets by the problems they will cause the student.
This is one of the things we do because we keep track of the student's strengths and
weaknesses. Therefore, when a student writes to me and says, send me a packet of 10 more
targets, I look in the database and I say, what is the student's weaknesses? Oh, look
at this. They have a problem describing shapes accurately. So I go through and I find those
targets which are full of geometric shapes which will give them good practice in their
weakness. When we send a student a package of targets,
there are several sheets before the actual targets and the sheet right exactly before
the target explains how all of what I'm going to do, explains again to them how all of what
I'm going to show you works. Down at the bottom of it is a phrase that all of my students
have learned well to remember. A practice target, the purpose of a practice target is
not to find out something about the target. The purpose of a practice target is to find
out something about yourself and that is really and honestly the purpose of a practice target.
But anyway, there's a whole stack of targets and so the student reaches in, grabs the top
one and pulls it out sort of to say, okay, this is the target I'm going to work. Then
they work it. As they work it, they may or may not want front loading. Most of them don't
and so this is all they do. They work through it and then they run into a little bit of
problems. Now the CRV method like Gaby was talking about yesterday, the viewer begins
by getting the gestalts of the site, just the major overall features. Then they start
making sensory contact. They begin to see, feel, smell, taste and hear the site impressions.
Then they start getting dimensional impressions and then they go into the more complex aspects
of the sites like relationships, concepts, intangibles, emotions, plans, intentions
and things like that. Let's take an actual target. Remember we have the fear of failure
and we internalize success. That looks like a pretty neat target, right? For remote viewing.
Anybody think that's a neat target? That sucks. Let me show you why. I'm going to start my
session and I'm going to get the overall impressions. The overall impressions, gestalts meaning
man-made, land, space, organics, things like that. I start my impression and I get man-made.
I work a little more and I get man-made. I work a little more and I get man-made. My first
tendency is to say, boy, I'm screwing this one up. That's all there is. Yet a viewer,
especially a beginning viewer in this situation will say, I can't do this. I'm really messing
up. On the back of every target, I have a little chart. When the viewer gets into this
situation where they say, man, I just can't do this, this chart, they pull it out a little
bit further as a last resort and they look at it and they say, oh, look, there aren't
hardly any gestalts. So stop killing myself over the fact that I'm not getting any and
move on to censories. Okay, well, there's not going to be very many censories either,
but I'll see what I can get. They start getting colors and on this target, you get lots of
nice colors. Texture, smooth, temperature, room temperature. You go through the different
senses, you get one thing in each one. Left to their own devices, a viewer will think,
I can't do this because they're having a bad session. When really, you've picked a
bad target. When you have these four things, a viewer can even, in fact, pull these out
one line at a time and judge them. So if they have a hard time, they can see, hey, it's
not me. PSI's target evaluation chart is simply this. Gestalt, censories, dimensionals, and
more conceptual things like relationships, the more advanced things. This will become
clear as we start working this. So let's take this target. Okay, how many gestalts?
Lots of gestalts? No, just the one gestalt. How about censories? Well, you got a few colors.
You got one taste, no taste at all, some textures and so on. Dimensions, yeah, you got a lot
of dimensions. So put your work into dimensions here. When you get down to the thing, then
spend all your time working at places where your work's going to do some good. Conceptuals,
this is for decoration, for storage. That's about it. This is really bad target. Okay,
if you separate by task, when you get to the real world, and so you may as well start doing
this in training, when you get to the real world, the police, let's say, will know that
there's a murder scene. They don't care about that. They already know about all that. They
want to know about one aspect of the target. For most remote viewing, they say, okay, there's
a picture in an envelope. Describe the picture. Once you get them along further, you're going
to say describe the location part of the picture. Describe the man-made part of the picture.
Describe that part of the picture which deals with an event or an activity or the activity
in location or whatever. At this point, you're using complex targets that may have a lot
of information and may take four and five hours to do the target. But you don't want
to burn your viewer out so you tell them what you want them to do. As a result, you tell
them what the specific tasking is. The tasking should never provide information about the
target ever. Don't tell the viewer anything about the target. They're there to tell you
about the target. You can tell them where to put their work, but don't tell them about
the target. It should only tell the viewer where to put their work to keep them from
wasting time. It also allows the student to check before ending the session to make sure
they have done what is wanted of them. A viewer goes ahead and does the whole session, winds
up page 40, whatever, and writes their summary. Right before they take the feedback out, they
say, let's see if I did what I was tasked to do. They pull it out a little more and
it says, describe the activity. Oh, well, I described the location and I described a
bunch of things there, but I didn't go for activity. Fine, don't end the session yet
and then they can go back and do more. All viewers quit too soon. They always do. That
last little line down there tells you specific tasking. If they haven't finished, they can
go back and do that. You can also rate the target by the problems that will cause the
student to have. Certain aspects of the target will cause the viewer to have specific session
problems, such as emotionally disturbing targets. One of the rules is anything you'll
turn your eyes away from, you'll tend to turn your mind away from too. Those aspects of
the target which you will avoid with your eyes, you will tend to avoid with your mind.
Also emotionally attractive targets is what's called doorknobbing. Anything which you will
turn your eyes toward, you will tend to turn your mind toward. And therefore, there may
be one very fascinating part of the picture. Man, the viewer just zooms in on that and
gets at 100% this doorknobbing. One time I was doing a target. It was when I first
got there. I described a house that was kind of yellowed with age and so on, old timey
house. And all of a sudden, right in the middle of the session, I got this gemstone. And that's
my hobby anyway. And it was attractive to me. And there was this gemstone. It was clear
like a diamond, clear white. And I started drawing it. I drew all the facets. And everything
I drew, actually quite a good sized picture of it. This was one of those beacon targets
and we went out to the site and here was this old historic house. We walked up on the porch
and here was a crystal doorknob on the front door. And I said, that's it. I took out my
session and I held it up. I had drawn the right number of facets. I had even drawn it the
same size as the doorknob. I had done a perfect target. And Skip Atwater said, yeah, but the
target was the house. But I had gotten so attracted by that one thing that I couldn't
even see the rest. And so this is one of the problems that all viewers have. They will
get attracted to one part. And you have boring targets too. No entropy. You may have heard
about the importance of entropy. Entropy being change, Shannon entropy also including
the change in contrast and so on of the actual picture. I would, from my experience, modify
the fact. They say that an airport terminal is easier to view than a vase on the mantle
because there's more entropy. What I have found is that because there is more entropy
from that site to you, to where you're working. If you're working in the airport terminal,
the difference in entropy between the airport terminal that you're trying to view or that
vase on the mantle, the difference in entropy will make the vase on the mantle easier to
view than an airport terminal. It's the difference in entropy between you and the target that
seems to make the difference. Complexity beyond the student's abilities. I don't think
I need to explain that. Problems. Emotions, entropy, and complexity. Okay. You can rate
them low emotions and the type of emotions, neutral, positive, negative, and so on. Entropy,
low, high, entropy, and neutral, positive, and negative entropy. Complexity. You can
say this is a great target, but man, look at all these things in the pictures. There
may be too many attractors to it. For example, okay, here's a target. This make a good target?
See students have some good success with this one because of that one zong right in your
face figure. They seem to have a lot of success with this, but let's do it this way. Gestalt.
How many gestalt do we have? A lot, a little. Well, we have some plants in the background.
We have man-made, man-made, man-made, man-made space. Motion. There's a little elevator going
up and down. We'll have a few gestalts. Sensories. Yeah, there are colors, there are sounds,
smells, all that. Dimensions. Tons of dimensions in this picture. Conceptuals. It's a lobby.
I mean, what's it for? It's for being a lobby. That's about it. Standing, waiting, going
somewhere and so on. And so, to judge this by the CRB level method, it would have a
rating like that. However, when you ask the viewer to view something, what do you want
him to view? Do you want him to specifically view the man-made? Do you want the location
or whatever? You can task whatever you want. You could task one leaf on that bush down
there in the corner if you wanted to. For this one, I just said location. Emotions.
Is this an emotional target? No. The emotions that would be there, would they be positive
or negative? No, they're neutral. Entropy. Well, there's a little bit going on. There's
an elevator going up and down, but that's about it. So, low plus. And any entropy that
is there is fairly neutral. But this is busy. There are too many attractors. There are too
many things to pull a viewer off. And so, rating this target by these three methods,
you have set this target for a specific level of student or a specific level that a student
may reach and know when it's the right time to give them that target. Okay, here's another
one. Gestalt. Yeah. We've got water. We've got people. We've got man-made. We've got space.
We've got motion activity and so on. Ooh, already. Okay. By the same token, you task
the activity. You've got odd picture shape may distract things. Okay. And so, you give
yourself a little hint. Okay. Here's an Eskimo stuck in the snow. I've been told it's time
to stop, so I'm going to go through these pretty fast. Anybody has any questions on
these? Raise your hand immediately. Okay. This is a man climbing the roof, climbing across
the roof of a snow cave, and activity and location is something that the viewer can
describe on both. Emotions may cause fear problems. Okay. This one. Almost no gestalts,
no censories, high end dimensions, but that's about it. Is this a good target? No, this
is a really bad target. Describe the man-made part of the site. That's all you could do.
Okay. However, look at this. No lead into the session could be used for mapping practice.
I might save this target and give it to one of my advanced students and see if in their
mapping, they draw six fingers on a glove. Anybody noticed there's six fingers on this
glove? Yes. Entropy is one of those words that you'll get different definitions for.
Entropy basically means change. Okay. A rock is right zero level entropy. Okay. But it
does change over centuries of time. And so it's not only the change and the amount of
change, but it's the speed of change as well all mixed in. A paper oxidizes when it burns.
Turns it very quickly. That's high entropy. A piece of iron oxidizes and over the next
hundred years it may rust into powder, into ashes. That's low entropy. It's the same
change, but it's over a longer period of time. Okay. Anybody seen any problems with this
target? It's a great target. It's got activities, everything else. Never give a viewer two
targets at once, especially a student. Don't do that to him. Here's a mantled scene. Somebody
got a printer for Christmas in their stocking location. What if the viewer hates Christmas?
You've got to know your viewers. How about this one? Gabby told you the answer to this
one yesterday. Do not give a viewer a target which does not exist. You just don't do that
to a student. It may seem humorous to you. To the viewer, it is not humorous. Okay. How
about this one? The Oklahoma City bombing. Emotional impact. It's a great target, but
it may cause fear or negative emotions. Don't give targets with strong negative emotions
to students which are not yet prepared to handle them. You've got to know your students.
Fungi jumper. It's a great target. This is a fantastic target, but you've got to know
if your student is afraid of heights. If so, they're not going to get this target. How
about this one? This one may surprise you. Anybody know what's coming next? The page
number is included on the bottom of the picture. Anybody know what this Arbite Mox Fry means?
Work will make you free. This is the gate at Dockow right outside the ovens where they
burn the people. Over 60 years later, the smell is still overpowering. While on the
surface, this may be a good target. You've got strong avoidance on this target. Here's
one. How many people are in that picture? Are there? You shouldn't give a viewer targets
like this. Never give a viewer of a person looking at themselves in the mirror, especially
the beginning viewer. One of my students actually got this picture and he said, kinky sex. Never
give this target to anyone. In the last picture, the rule that goes along with this is the
golden rule of remote viewing, tasking, and selecting pictures. Don't give a viewer any
target you wouldn't want given to you. Very simple rule. When you're selecting targets
for each other, don't give a target to someone that you wouldn't want given to you. Any
questions at all? When you work a target and you make the ideogram, you can tell the density
of data at the target when you do the ideogram, can't you? Sure. But what if there's a target
with only one ideogram and the viewer says, oh, I can't do this? Then you tell them, hey,
that's all there is. What about giving a null target? We had at our organization a huge
fight because someone put up an ID with no target behind it. That's not fair. I go with
the person who objected. One time on the art bill list, there was this guy that kept saying,
tell me what's in the box if you're so good. Finally, I wrote back and I said, why should
I take my time to tell you what's in the box when there are children to be found and all
that? Besides that, there's nothing in your box. He had been trying to trick everybody.
If anybody had described anything in the box, it would have proven beyond all doubt that
remote viewing doesn't work. The question is, at what point do we move viewers into numbers
and concepts and all? There are mile posts that we have learned along the way, such
as when you move out of dimensional training is when a person starts getting concepts on
their own. When they start getting the concepts, that's when you know to start the phase four
training, the stage four training and all that. There are mile posts along the way.
There are signs that a student will give that let you know when to proceed with their training.
I'm Paul H. Smith. I've had the fortunate and misfortune both of being the conference
chair this year for this conference, as well as for last year. Thanks. I appreciate that,
but I have to say that a lot of the credit for how well this has run, I owe it to the
people that helped me and that did a huge amount of work to make this work. I'll recognize
them at the end if I don't forget and then get in trouble with them.
My other hats beyond this, as I mentioned at the very beginning, I'm president of remote
viewing instructional services, a company I started at the time I retired from the Army.
We offer remote viewing training. We offer operational remote viewing. We're commercial,
obviously, which is, you know, we feel that it's a, you know, we're part of the remote
viewing community, but we are commercial as opposed to the nonprofit function of the organization
that we're involved in here with this conference. I spent seven years in the, what became known
as the Stargate Remote Viewing Program. I was recruited by the Army into that unit in September
of 1983. I served until 1990, at which point I was transferred to the 101st Airborne for
some time in the desert without showers. That's how I'll always remember that phase of my
life, although there were some exciting moments. I don't know what else to tell you. That's
probably enough of an introduction. As I launch into my talk, which you can see is remote
viewing's biggest bugaboo, how we come to think we know what really isn't so, I want to ask how
many heard me talk about this on Jeff Rents? Jeff Rents asked me, what does that mean? Some
heard, those of you who raised your hands, I don't want you to answer this question. Who
thinks they know what I'm talking about by this title? Any ideas? I want a hand. AOL,
Analytic Overlay. Way back there. Is that Jeffrey? Displacement. We're going to have to get some
explanation of that one. I won't ask you for that now. It may actually apply, specifically
talking about Analytical Overlay. I called it Analytical Overlay for years. I used that with
Ingo one time when I was on the phone, Ingo Swan, and he said, it's Analytical Overlay. He's kind
of a stickler for words, so I said, yes, sir, and only slip every once in a while now. Analytical
Overlay. We're going to find out what that is here in a minute, along with some other things. This
is my first time with PowerPoint. Never used PowerPoint before. A number of us that are in
that same boat can't guarantee it'll go flawlessly, but we'll see. I also want to tell you that I'm
going to be talking about some psychology stuff here. I am not a psychologist, and what I'm going
to talk about is very preliminary and superficial, and I may make some mistakes, and I know there's
some experts out there, so Michael O'Bannon, I don't want any sharp shooting. But I think you'll
find some interesting correlations between the effects and results of remote viewing and some
interesting phenomena from the psychological domain. How we come to think, we know what really
isn't so. Now if I can push the right button here, we're going to talk about mental noise. What it
is a little bit, what causes it a little bit, and how to deal with it a little bit. There are no
ultimately fully completely right answers here, but there are some general ideas that we can learn
that may help us improve our remote viewing abilities. Where does mental noise come from?
First is the environment. You might call this environmental overlay.
You know, if there's things going on while you're trying to remote view, acoustic sorts of
interference, visual sorts of interference, a busy carpet, a picture of a sailboat on a wall,
a garbage truck loading garbage in the background, any of those things can intrude on the data you
produce. It's not remote viewing data, that is extraneous stuff that is noise. I don't want to
talk too much about that today. The obvious way to exclude that is to exclude as much environmental
noise as you can. It got to the point, in fact, in this attempted SRI, that it created an all gray
room. It's the kind of place you wouldn't want to be for half your life, that's for sure, but it did
cut down on the noise. Acoustically shielded, everything painted the same shade of gray,
soft carpet, un-patterned, and it worked pretty well at excluding environmental noise.
Personal, what we call inclinancies. These are issues that might get in the way that might be
nagging at you, might be bothering you mentally or emotionally, as you said, out to try and do our
remote viewing session. They can be physical, you've got a headache, you're feeling sick, your stomach,
something like that. It might be emotional, your dog was just run over, your wife has left you,
your wife has come back. Things like that. It could be social, you're being snubbed at school,
you can't get your AK-47 and go back, doggone it. These kinds of things, eat at you, cause your
problems, might bother you, you have to get rid of those. That's another form of mental noise
that you can exclude by acknowledging that it's a problem. Writing it down helps, I think,
so we're calling Skip's presentation, he talked about this little box, you put your troubles in
and put it away, you can use that kind of methodology, something like that, something to get rid of
the stuff that's bothering you, so you don't have to think about it while you're trying to remote
view. But one of the biggest issues we have is analytical, and we're going to talk about that
in more detail. That is where the cognitive processes that normally occur in the human mind,
in the content of those cognitive processes, overlay, confuse, get in the way of the data
that we're trying to extract from the target that we're addressing. Here are some examples,
showing you kind of processes that people go through in some of the ways that analysis intrudes.
This is a target that Hela Hamid, we're going to see how well it's done. This is a target that
Hela Hamid, we're going to see how well it's scanned, well it'll do I guess, and actually,
originally a friend of Russell's who he introduced the program, a target that she worked in one of
their experiments. The target was this, civilian overpass with a cyclone fencing over the top of
it to keep people throwing bricks into passing cars, this being California that you can understand
why that's an issue. At any rate, Hela remote viewed this target, not knowing what it was, I
presume Russell, this was an outbounder probably? Okay good, Hela's very first trial, outbounder,
somebody, perhaps Hal or Russell or somebody, went to the target, interacted with it, Hela
described where the person was, not knowing what the target was, and she arrived at this
description. She drew these criss-crossy lines that receded into the distance, she drew these arrows
like this, she drew some things like circular kinds of things going in a direction, she said
it's like a trough up in the air, only there are holes in it so it couldn't hold water, okay? You
can see the analysis going, this reminded her of a trough, and yet more data came in and she said
but there's something not quite right, but she couldn't quite identify what it was. There are
things going past really fast, what were those things? Cars, so you see an interesting thing
here, she's got a little bit of information, she tries to draw conclusions, comes up with this
trough idea, and there are things happening that she can't identify, that she knows they're doing
something, she describes what she knows of them, but what it all signifies what it means, she
hasn't really quite got to handle on. Another example, this was done by a CIA skeptic, one that
they ultimately converted to the reality of remote viewing, I believe Hal was the outbounder on
this if I remember right, went to this playground, a budding physicist and world-renowned figure
jumping on a merry-go-round and going around and around, I kind of envisioned him doing that in a
suit, but I don't think he probably was wearing one. So the CIA skeptic, back in the isolation
chamber, were you monitoring this, Russell? Oh, this was a female. Okay, let me repeat this,
Russell, for the record. This person was a skeptic, did not trust the SRI personnel, and so they
took away the phone that was in there and taped the door closed because they didn't trust her
either. She produced this result. If you'll note, the sketch is pretty interesting, isn't it? If
you were going to match this, you probably have a very good chance of matching the target to the
actual sketching. I can't read this too clearly, I don't know if you can. Some sort of structure
thing on top of something else, I can't read it. Rod in a general sense, extended dome type
lightning rod then. If I hear something, it's a lightning rod, okay? And top view, and then here
a medium. I can't read that either. I'm going to have to scan it in higher resolution next time,
maybe darkness. Anyway, and I don't seem to see it on here, but the viewer called it a
cupula, like on top of a building or something, okay? Well, we can see what it is. We can see
it's a merry-go-round. We see that the sketch is pretty darn accurate, and in the sort of way you
might expect of what the actual target is, but the viewer has interpreted what this thing is,
concluded that it's a top of a structure with a lightning rod on it, okay? Taken real data and
turned it into something else. Here's another one. This is from one of my students. You'll find
this interesting. These are the words. I've got up and down here twice, that's inadvertent. Up and
down motion is associated with the target. A rolling across patterned metal sound, the idea of
something rolling across some kind of patterned material or metal, like rolling over a graded
surface. Some portion of the structure is rounded or like a somewhat flattened dome shape. This
seemed to rest atop a narrower surface. Height and visibility are accentuated. This, in a sense of
motion, created a queasy response from the viewer. So you see a subjective reaction to
this. A little bit of motion sickness perhaps. The viewer's feeling a little queasy caused by the
motion and stuff associated with this. Speed of travel is associated with the site. The site
serves a controlling function. There's a strong AOL of an air traffic control tower. What do you
think it was? Somebody suggest a roller coaster? What else? Any other ideas? Okay. Speed of motion
back and up and down. I'm sorry, up and down motion has to do with speed in some sense. There's a
taller part on top of a narrower part. Controlling function, AOL of air traffic control. Are you
ready? You see, some of that data is actually right, isn't it? Some of the data is actually
right. Speed of motion is involved, but the interpretation was fast motion. But you notice
the data didn't say if it was fast or slow. There's a controlling function involved. The
narrow and taller part is true. Overlooking, overseeing, all that stuff. Like wheels rolling
on graded metal, I have no idea what kind of subsurface or substrat, whatever you call it,
surfaces rolling on. But the interpretation was air traffic control tower. You see, analysis at
work here. Trying to interpret or come to a conclusion about the data that's presented.
People have tried to figure this mental noise stuff out for a long time. This is an illustration
from Ren Wacallier's book, Mind to Mind. Is that right? Mind to Mind. He was writing in the 30s,
40s, roughly. Did some pretty solid experiments. Thought he was dealing with telepathy, but I
think he could make a good case that was actually about viewing who he was dealing with. And he
found, encountered this noise pattern. You know, there's supposed to be a laser pointer here,
but I don't see one. Does somebody want to have one out there I can borrow? If you can find one,
bring it on up and I'll talk more. If you look at the, at the first, the top picture, you see it's
kind of a wood block print of a rising sun with these butterflies superimposed over it.
That was the target. The response is interesting. That's what the sketch is down here in the bottom.
You see somebody on a horse. Ooh, alright. Somebody's got one. I see it shining. Oh, yes, I have two of
them now. Oh, oh, Dick, can I have that? I want to be able to go like that. Which, the yellow button,
okay. I'm good. You know, let's have a duel. Okay, you see the rising sun, the butterflies.
Down here, you see this guy on the horse. These troops aligned for battle. And what do we see
right here? A rising sun coming over the horizon. Note that. We have something here spinning in the air.
That's really quite bizarre. Well, this is the Croix-de-Groix, or however you French speakers say
that. It's, of course, a French war medal. The person who did this said it is a, the, the target
is a picture of Waterloo, or I'm sorry, Napoleon at Austerlitz. And this Croix-de-Groix symbolizes
the heroism or whatever that took place there. Well, you can see where this came from. You can see
the accuracy and the inaccuracies that resulted from this. The rising sun is obvious. In fact, it's
strikingly like the other one, although the rays obviously are a little bit thinner. The shapes of
the butterfly wings and the shapes in the Croix-de-Groix are very interesting, quite similar.
And the position of the medal is also superimposed over the sun. It's just that the viewer, we'll
call them a viewer for the sake of this discussion. They didn't call them that in the experiment. The
viewer received a certain amount of information and then turned it into this. Well, what is what
what Carlieri say about it? He says, the impression of the latent image, the target, in other words,
actually it's the impression of the target in the viewer's, what we would call subconscious
perhaps now, the impression of the latent image excites the imagination and the memories of the
recipient, the imagination and the memories of the person during the perceiving. These are confused
and an interpretation results that frequently is, in an understatement, highly original. Now how
many of you viewers and budding viewers out there have produced highly original results? Yes. It's
a common malady. Yes. Okay, good. What else can we see here? He showed us some other things and
these will be interesting later on. He knows some other phenomenon that people had. The previous
one showed an overlay that came from imagination and from memory that got confused with the signal
elements. In this case, the target was really quite accurately reproduced, but as he says here,
the target was the drawing of a pair of eyeglasses. The image was received quite clearly and the
recipient was, I don't know what this is about maybe, to draw an outline of the form and to
describe it in detail, yet he could not recognize what it was. Fairly close representation of the
target, even to the little squiggle here, although he had an extra one, had no clue what it was he
was drawing. Keep that in mind. Down here in an experiment, Upton Sinclair did in mental radio,
that's a book by the way that Russell Targ has brought back out again and it is sold out out here
but order it, it's a great book. The target was this flag, the impression the person got was
kind of a fragmented pattern. He had most of the elements there, but they were not associated in
the same way that the actual target was. These are all interesting and perhaps significant in the
long run. When the SRI was doing their research early in the early 70s into remote viewing,
they suspected, and that was right when the split brain research was starting to come out,
Roger Sperry and a guy named Orrin Steen, particularly who they consulted, they discovered
that a lot of the phenomenon that was resulting from remote viewing mimicked kinds of things
that they were finding in split brain research, which I'll talk about a little bit more in a
minute. That's by the way where the idea of the right brain and the left brain come from. That's
not a new concept to most of you. The idea of course is that the right brain is kind of a global
pattern recognition, has a global pattern recognition function while the left brain is linear
and more oriented towards language. That's a very kind of simple way of describing it,
but that's good enough for what we need at the moment. In remote viewing, because of the results
we get in the way the behaviors emerge, we come to the conclusion, just like SRI came to the
conclusion and we continue to see these things and come to the same conclusion, that right brain
is very important in the process, and that's where we're probably getting a lot of this information.
But as in our normal functioning, the left brain is important as well. Now I'm going to talk a
little more about that here in a second. Two, I don't know which second, but we'll find out.
Yes, I want to talk about the standard model here. Now when I stay standard, I'm not talking about
anything that's accepted by academia in this. This is the model that those of us who learned CRV
learned from Ingo Swan and Hal Putoff's method, controlled remote viewing, called way back then
coordinate remote viewing. And I think that having read many of the reports that came out of that
era, I think it pretty well echoes what they learned or what the construct and the model they
developed from what they learned from remote viewing experiments. You start off assuming that
the human consciousness is kind of divided up. It could be more complicated than this, but this
is close enough for government work as it was at the time. You've got the conscious awareness,
you've got the subconscious, you've got the lemon, which is the threshold between the two,
you've got sensory input coming in and extra sensory input coming in. Okay,
nowhere sensory input comes in. That's something we're not usually aware of. The fact is that
every piece of sensory information we get comes in below our level of consciousness,
and some mechanism in our minds and our brains decides what amount of that sensory information
will be filtered into our conscious awareness. I don't remember the exact numbers here,
I've heard them several times, but something like maybe 1% or even less than that of all
of the sensory data we receive ever makes it into consciousness. If you think about it,
we have millions of photoreceptors in our eyes, in our retinas. We have, I don't know, probably
millions of nerve endings in our skin. We have millions of olfactory cells, what do they call
those things? Smell cells, whatever. We've got all of these detectors, each one of them gives
a discrete signal. Each one of those signals enters into the process. All of those terminate
in our brains. Can you imagine if all of that stuff ended up in our conscious awareness,
what we would be like? We'd all be like Russell Tartt. Oh, no, no, I didn't mean that, Russell,
sorry. We would, you know, we couldn't function, right? It would be like everything was switched
on all the time. You know, that's what nerve agent does to you. So there's got to be some kind of
connect, some kind of filter, some way of disconnecting the sensory, all of that sensory load
coming in from our conscious mind so that we can still function. And then something along
around the lemon does that. It filters and lets in only the important stuff and we're aware of
only things that are directly important to us at that moment at that time. We can selectively
change that by what we attend to, what we choose to give our attention to. Holy cow, I'm using up
too much time, aren't I? Well, we can change, we can choose to change that, but we don't change
very much the amount of that information that comes through. Now, presumption is, let me go back,
when Ingo Swan first started training us in CRV, he said, I don't teach you to be psychic.
I don't even like the word psychic. All I teach you is perception, how to perceive in a way that
perhaps you haven't tried to perceive before. I train perception, I don't train remote viewing.
So we're teaching the perceptual system how to work, how to get this discrete information. Now,
if all of the sensory input comes into the subconscious, it makes sense that the so-called
extra sensory input would come in there as well, and that seems to be how the system does indeed
work. So all this stuff is coming into the subconscious. The idea of remote viewing writ
large is to try and figure out how to get the extra sensory stuff into conscious awareness
as readily as you get your sensory stuff. So far, we haven't been successful at doing it as readily,
but we can improve our capabilities with practice and learning good principles.
There's more, however, that complicates the picture we'll get to. But first, I want to talk about
a proposed new model in a way, a brain hemisphere model. Further psychological research over the
years has shown, in fact, that this notion of subconscious is a little bit fuzzy. What exactly
is a subconscious? Is there really a subconscious? Is it just a matter of what you're paying
attention to and what you're not? There's still a lot of debate about that. But there's some
interesting indication that rather than a subconscious, it's really kind of the right brain
where the data comes in, where all that sensory data comes in. Remember, the right brain isn't
lingual, doesn't have language, although there are some interesting exceptions to that. The data
comes in there, so we might say, this in a sense is the subconscious, and I'm being very simplistic
you psychologists, don't attack. In a sense, this is the subconscious. And in a sense, this is the
conscious part, the conscious aware, consciously aware part, the left brain. So what happens is
then the data is selectively passed from the right brain to the left brain, and then the left brain
has to decide what to do with it. See what my next slide is here. I'll come back to that in a second.
If you think about your everyday life and what happens in it, you're always having to make decisions,
you're always having to interpret things that happen. People who like to watch soap opera,
of course, they get a lot of that, because all these people are saying things and doing things,
and interacting and stuff, and you see all the people having to sort out what those little interesting
little social nuances actually mean, right? You're interpreting what's happening in a social
situation. Same thing happens in just every other aspect of everyday life. We have to interpret this
data that comes in. We have to interpret what it means. Is it a threat? Is it an opportunity?
Does it imply pleasure? Does it imply pain? Does it mean obligation? Do we have to respond to it?
Can we ignore it? All those kinds of things are being decided on the fly split second fashion
in our minds and in our brains. It's the left brain that makes those interpretations that I'll
explain here in a minute. Now, I've laid that background. I'm going to talk about some interesting
phenomena here that show a little bit how these things work. This is going to be a bit scattered.
I'll warn you up front, a bit scattered, maybe a little inconclusive, but there are some interesting
things that maybe we can lay as a foundation to move on. The first of these areas of interest
are what is classically known as subliminal perception. Thank goodness they've changed it
because I very seldom can say that word subliminal. I guess George Bush has a problem with it too.
One suggested alternative is pre-conscious processing. Another one is perception without
awareness. There are other people who actually there's some skepticism that it even exists
in psychological circles. I think the evidence is pretty good in my opinion.
I'm going to choose pre-conscious processing except when I forget and choose a different term.
The notion here is that if a person receives a stimulus, some kind of sensory stimulus,
too briefly or too subtly for it to register in the conscious mind, remember again all of the
sensory stuff is dumping into the subconscious, the right brain or whatever you want to call it.
All that stuff is getting in there. It's being interpreted. If your conscious mind isn't aware
of it, there still appears to be an interpretation process going on in the subconscious. Your
subconscious mind apparently can indeed think. That's quite interesting. People tend to assume
that what they're consciously aware of is all there is that's worth paying attention to.
There seems to be more to it than all that. How do they test this? Well, they might flash
something on a screen so quickly that it happens quicker than our conscious recognition process
can work, but our subconscious picks it up. Or they might embed a stimulus in some distracting
pattern or something that our conscious mind doesn't pick out. It's just random dots but
our subconscious can pick up. I'm sure all of you are craving popcorn now because I've just
flashed a popcorn icon. No, not really. Just kidding. Here's an experiment that shows some
interesting things. They showed this particular picture. As you can see, it's kind of an industrial
scene in the 19th century. Horse, wagon loaded with stuff, bales of what could be caught. I
don't know what's hard to say. Kind of a loading dock, buildings here. Somewhere in this picture
there's some people, but I didn't scan it clearly enough. There's a person right there. That was
almost subliminal, wasn't it? It looks better on the screen here. They flashed at varying lengths
of time to different subjects. I don't think it was the same subject. I'd have to reread it.
But, and you see four different responses at different times of exposure. First one here,
they got this vaguely dog-like animal hair and some kind of building and some
pertinences here, but they really, oh, there's a harness on it. I guess they figured out it was
either a horse or an ox, or an ox, whatever. Now, I don't know which order this goes in,
but you do tend to see the detail grow. This was the most detailed one. Now, the scene that was
shown was quite busy, but after enough exposure they tended to get some pretty good detail from it,
although none of it is really exact. They've added things that weren't there. They left that things
that were there, and they've oriented things differently than they were. I'll go back to this
scene here. You can see there are some similarities and some differences from what they have. In this
scene, whoops, too far, the wrong way. We're about to be confused. I told you PowerPoint was my
downfall. I don't think that there's any people over here by this animal here, and yet in this
picture they've added a person. So there's something going on. That's one example. Here's
another example of an experiment. They flashed this to the subject very quickly, and then asked
the person to identify what it was. They came up with this sketch here, and they thought it was
a dome with a window in it. Well, you can see the shape is quite similar to at least one of these
geological forms. But then that night the person had a dream, and in the morning they drew their
impression of the dream. You see they've got this raised up area. You've got these three people.
These people they interpreted as their friends. But you see what's in this picture. It doesn't
show up very well, but there's some people here. There's a person there. You've got these three
spires separated by a remove. You can see where some of the data came through. You can see where
some of it's accurate, but there's some interpretation going on. Okay, what's the next one?
We'll come to that in a second. Anybody here have a remote viewing session whose results look like
this? Well, we have some. Okay, interesting. Interesting, don't you think? What does it mean?
We'll find out, maybe or maybe not. Another psychological phenomenon is a thing called
visual agnosia, where we have definition here. The inability to visually recognize familiar
objects. The objects can be seen but are not understood. Somebody might see that chair and
not know it's a chair. They see it. They can walk around it. They can even pick it up. But just
looking at it, they wouldn't know it was a chair. The interesting thing is, by feeling it or smelling
it or tasting it, assuming it's something other than a chair, they actually can identify the
object. But by not by seeing it. By seeing it, they can't identify it. So here's a little quote
from one of the books on the subject. Subjects are able to describe parts of an object or maybe
able to copy a picture of it. But they have no idea what the object is or how it might be used.
Here's some examples. This was one that's repeated a lot. It was actually used in the 1975 report
to the CIA that SRI turned in on their remote viewing program. The responses of the, what
the subject did was draw the target photo. See, these are the target photos. They reproduced
the target photos and then were asked what it was they drew. The top left one, subject said,
I don't know. I still don't know what it is. The top right one, they said, well, it could be a dog
or some other animal. Now, well, whatever. Bottom left, it could be a beach stump. And over here,
it says, it's a wagon or a car of some kind. But the larger vehicle is being pulled by the smaller
one. What on earth are they talking about? They interpreted that as another vehicle.
Now, visual agnosia is caused by leeches in certain parts of the brain, some kind of injury
or whatever, incapacity, that seems to cut off the visual centers from the centers that,
I guess, do the interpreting the language centers, interpretive portions. In a way, and I know this
is really stretching, but in a way, it's kind of separates right brain from left brain functions
in a sort of a way that may or may not become important here in a moment. Here's another example.
This is a picture of an owl. This is the response that the viewer, I'm sorry, viewer,
that the patient provided. And this is what was said. When copying this picture, the subject
stated that all he saw was a complex pattern of lines which did not correspond to a particular
object. Now, we can look at that and we know what that is for the most part, except for you who have
been rurally deprived and never seen an owl before. But you'll note that there's a bit of an
incompleteness here up here with this eye, and you see the viewer actually, here we go again,
the subject actually kind of captured that, didn't know why it was there. The text of the book
points out that it normally, normal subjects who don't have these problems would have seen this
picture and likely would have completed the incomplete part there as they were capturing
things, as they knew it was an owl and their interpretive function would take over and fix
whatever defects there might have been in the drawing. This leads us to a thing called the
left brain interpreter. This is proposed by a psychologist, quite well known by the name of
Gazaniga. I think it's Michael Gazaniga, if I'm not mistaken. He suggests, and I'll read this,
we humans have a specialized system to carry out this interpretive synthesis and it is located
in the brain's left hemisphere. I've called it the interpreter, a system that seeks explanation
for both internal and external events in order to produce appropriate behaviors in response. In
other words, there is something up here in our brains and minds, and it's hard to separate those
two, which interprets everything that comes in. Remember what I said about that before? There's
something that interprets the data that comes in. This is a candidate for that, and Gazaniga I
think really believes that that probably is what I was talking about before. Now, just a brief
talk about right brain and left brain. I talked about split brain research. We're talking seriously
about split brain. There's a large bundle of fibers that connect the two hemispheres of the brain,
and some people with epilepsy and other conditions like that seem sometimes cutting that
bundle of fibers helps them. What this does is allow cross communication between the two
hemispheres. So probably that's where the sensory data comes across to a great extent.
People, and some people, they cut that. You leave a discrete left and right hemisphere,
although there's still the primitive parts of the brain are usually intact and still have some
cross connection. That does cause some interesting and profound dysfunctions in people, in certain
behaviors in their normal lives. One experiment that shows this, these over here were not shown
to the people, but this is just to illustrate, give you an idea of what we're talking about here.
They took half of each of these figures represented over here on the right. They flashed those on a
screen to subjects who were suffering from some kind of split brain effector, but they only showed
it to each independent visual field. The left visual field is connected to the right hemisphere,
the right visual field is connected to the left hemisphere, and I'm not going to go into more
detail on that because it can get fairly complicated. There's a little cross-pollination
between the two, but that's good enough for now. So they showed this half picture to each side.
These were the results. Now you have to remember, again this is almost a pre-conscious process.
It's almost a subliminal experiment because they don't show these for long periods of time,
they just flash them. They wanted to see what kind of perception these people would get and what
kind of results they would draw once these things, these subjects have been flashed to
the separate hemispheres independently. This was the right hemisphere response to that brief
stimulus. If you'll note, things still seem to be divided down the middle. It's a fairly
trustworthy representation given the short exposure of what had been shown. Notice though,
to the left hemisphere, we're talking the left hemisphere, you see where you got half a roof
here, which you would have gotten because there was only half a roof here. Here the person tried
to complete the roof and add some doors and windows. Here, instead of half a circle of the
stick figure, they put a whole circle in and kind of put appendages on both sides. Same thing up
here. What's going on? It appears that the left hemisphere feels a need for closure. Now how many
people have spouses like that? The left hemisphere has a need for closure, so it adds things that
aren't really there. It interprets things. Does that sound like anything that happens in remote
viewing? Keep thinking about that. Here's another split-braining experiment. They took two scenes
and I've redone these. A snow scene that was shown to the right hemisphere, they showed it
to the left visual field connected with the right hemisphere. They showed a chicken claw
to the right visual field, which connects to the left hemisphere. Don't get confused.
Chicken claw left hemisphere, snow scene right hemisphere. Then they showed the subject a whole
menu of objects and things that they could select to correspond with the things that their
hemispheres had chosen. Again, there was a division there so that each hemisphere saw a
different body of things, a different selection. The left hand of the subject picked the shovel.
Snow shovel, picked a snow shovel. Makes sense. Snow scene. The right hand connected to the left
hemisphere. The left hemisphere picked the chicken. Makes sense. Chicken claw goes with chicken.
Any problems so far? No. The problem that arose was when they asked the person
why they made the choices they did. Remember, right brain does not verbalize, does not have
language connection except in certain conditions. Left brain does. That's the one that does the
explaining. This is what they said. Asked why the choice of the shovel and the chicken? The
subject responded, oh that's simple. The chicken claw goes with the chicken and you need a shovel
to clean out the chicken coop. The left brain noticed the left hand's choice and interpreted
the choice in terms of what yet the left brain knew. It did not have access to what the right
brain knew. So the left brain did the interpretation and did the verbalizing. Since all the left brain
knew about was the chicken, it had to figure out what the heck that shovel was there for,
and it concluded it was to clean out the chicken shed. Some people might say that a little differently,
but that's how I'm going to say it. Here's another example, a split brain example. Think about this
in terms of what we talked about with our collier. This is drawn by the left hand. In other words,
the right hemisphere, the left hand of a subject, after they were shown a picture of a bicycle,
the subject said he didn't see anything. He's drawing it. It's being shown to his right hemisphere.
His left hemisphere doesn't see it. Left hemisphere is verbal. Left hemisphere says,
I don't see it. It's not lying. It's just stupid. Sorry. The left hemisphere says,
I don't see anything. And yet with the left hand, that subject was able to draw this
fairly passable representation of a bicycle. The interesting thing about this is I've seen
in remote viewing sessions that were about equivalent to this as far as the target that
they were doing. Interesting. Now, this is an interesting one too. Note this. The subject
drew this sketch, said that this is sand over here, sand here. There's something here with
rails on it. It's floating in the water. And there's this hoop thing. I don't know what that hoop
thing is. This is, they thought was sun and clouds or whatever. That's interesting, huh?
This was not a split brain test. This was a remote viewing session.
This was the target, bridge in, I think, Cohn, Germany. And you can see the strong resemblance
between the remote viewing session result and the bridge. But the viewer did not know this was
a bridge. All they knew that there was water involved. They interpreted this as floating on
the water. They didn't quite know what that was. But they missed the whole idea of bridge.
And there's some obviously left brain interpretation going on here. Okay. I'm going to show you
some other examples. This is one that I did. It's kind of fun, but I'm feeling a little embarrassed
about it. Some of the input. I got an idea of serid ranks. How many of these serid ranks are
there? One, two, three, four, five, six. Interesting. Okay. Then I tried to turn it into Stonehenge.
It will break Easter Island Stonehenge. I was so confused. I thought, maybe this is a castle.
There's something rounded and there's something sticking out of it and there's got a lip on it.
Okay. It's a castle. Then I drew these patterns. One, two, three, four, five, six. I drew these
lines. One, two, three, four, five, six. I get my feedback. I go, oh man. One, two, three, four.
Whoops. One, two, three, four, five, six. I don't know if I was picking up six or not,
but it sure came through a lot. But you can see what's happening here. My subconscious perceived
this circular, ellipt kind of notion with something mounting over out of it. And I turned
it into the top of a castle. Interestingly, I didn't include anything down below that. That's
all the sketch I did. I just knew there was something coming up and because my left brain
didn't know enough about it, it jumped to a conclusion and said, it's the top of a castle.
Now the patterns are actually pretty close to a number of the patterns in here.
And the point I want to make here is that oftentimes you can trust your sketching when you
can't trust your words. And I think the reason is when we're sketching quite frequently, in a way,
our subconscious is talking to our hand. It bypasses analysis to a great extent. I've seen many,
many, many student remote viewings where they have drawn a very remarkable sketch that closely
resembles an aspect of the target. And then they go and label it as something completely different.
They, you know, their left brain looks at it and says, I don't know what the heck this is.
Let's make something up and then proceed to make a couple of kinds of elaborate things.
If they kept their pen off and didn't write any words, people might have judged it a hit.
They look at it and their left brain says, oh, I like these verbal descriptions
and, you know, they don't believe it. So oftentimes the sketching turns out to be right.
Another example. This was a fun one. I got this kind of sketch and I got an AOL of clown face.
Then I got this little AOL. It looks like poached eggs in a pan, something like that. I got this
sketch and I got this notion of an arm hanging down, holding something. Now, if you're going to
look at that, what do you think that is? If you looked at that, what would you call that?
Say again? Firehider? What else? Okay. Scuba diver, diving helmet. Okay. Well, guess what?
I'm just like the rest of you. AOL break, scuba diver. AOL break, porky pig. I don't
know where they came from, but I guess you can kind of think that might look like it.
Well, what the heck was this thing? This is kind of fun. Check this out.
That was the photo. Now, I got active. That was data. AOL break, shouting. They were probably
yelping, but I interpreted it as shouting. Quizzical and grossed, observing, onlookers
and looked upon. That's data. Bodies shaking, wiggling. Like there are a number of people
intermixed with each other, but of different categories. I got an AOL break of dark skin
and light skin folks intermingled. But there is some interesting stuff here. If you look at
the sketch, when I drew the sketch I was trying to do roughly what we call a tracker, where you
just let your hand go and you don't try and draw anything. You just feel where it should go.
Actually, the sketch is more accurate than it seems. Look at this. First of all, you see the
pan here. We have a head, we have ears, we have a body, and we have a tail. Do you believe me?
I don't know if it is or not, but it looks good. Don't you think?
But I think you could. The thing you always have to worry about, and I haven't heard anybody
mention this here, the cautions that you have to have in remote viewing. One of those is data
fitting. Trying to make the real data fit what you did so that you feel better about yourself.
There's a quick question. Yes? Did I have three little dogs? There is one here with his head,
his ears, his body, and his tail. Three dogs. I have three things here. That's also a possibility,
but that's data fitting. You've got to watch that. I don't know. It's just an interesting
takeaway. Another quick question. Better be quick or I won't answer it. Exactly. Could be.
And that ties in with some of the psychology stuff we've been talking about. You get bits and pieces
of the data, then your brain interprets it. The left brain interprets it. All right. One more
question. Quick. Left, right, reversals, those happen a lot. You get that in also subliminal
perception. You get that in left, left, right brain issues. You get that in visual agnausia as
well. Interesting correlation with remote viewing data. I do sometimes and sometimes I don't.
Pat Price has a famous session where he has a really significant left, right reversal in it.
But you'll note this. I have never got a hand in a session before. There's the only time I ever
did it, but look how closely that resembles that. But here's another interpretation. It doesn't
show up very well, but you'll notice this guy's boot goes like that. And see this is pretty close
to the same thing. And I interpreted it as somebody holding something. Okay. Okay. So we've
talked a bit about AOL. I've talked a little bit about incoming data. We've talked a little bit
about AOL. I kind of mixed things up in this presentation a little bit. It's kind of confusing
perhaps. I just want to show you some interesting ideas and provoke some thoughts about what could
be going on cognitively when we end up with mental noise in our sessions. So let's go from here
and then talk about. We acknowledge that AOL exists, analytical really exists. What can we do
about it? Anybody have any thoughts? What can you do about AOL? John. With AOL you can take a break.
Other ideas? Okay. He suggests how about focus on the sketching and drawing skills and try and
avoid the verbalization. That's what you mean, right? I don't want to take liberties with your
wording. Any other thoughts? Yes. Right. Don't worry about how the drawing looks. Pay attention
to what's going on inside your mind. Betty Edwards' her book, Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain,
is a mandatory book for people to read and use during remote viewing. Russell has a comment
and then I'm going to have to move on. Yes. Excellent. I had forgotten to bring that up in
my slide. I'm glad he mentioned that. Russell says, you emphasize the surprising elements. The
things that come out that are unexpected. If it's something that fits in with your storyline,
they're very good chance it's wrong. But if it's something that just leaps out at you that you
hadn't expected, there's a very good chance that that's signal. The things that surprise you are
probably true. Now your interpretation of them could be off. So the idea is to try and report
it exactly as you experience it, not how your brain  we'll talk later.
Yeah. That's the idea. First impressions, if you think about it a while, you may actually be
contaminating the information you get. What can we do about AOL? Well, we've got this little
line here. I've got to find that neat effect where these things spool across as you push the
button. I didn't know you could do that with PowerPoint. Well, you live and learn, right?
The first thing is kind of the mantra of remote viewing. Describe, don't name. This comes out
as early as 1972-73 in the SRI literature. They discovered that when viewers tried to name,
you're actually coming to an analytical conclusion. What is this thing? Your left
brain gives you an answer. It's a castle. Well, it's not a castle. You named it. If you just
described the darn thing, I'll lift the object with something poking out over the top. If I had
said that, I'd have been right. If I said it was a castle, I'd have been wrong. Now in that
instance, of course, I drew the castle. There was AOL getting into my sketch. That was one of those
cases where the sketch wasn't quite as accurate as it should have been. Describe, don't name.
Learn to recognize noise. And I'm going to talk in my next slide about how you do that,
to some extent. Objectify the noise. When you figure out what the noise is, get it out.
Deal with AOL is kind of a zen-like process. You don't try to quiet your mind so much as to
allow what comes in to flow out again. And as you let it flow out, it kind of cleanses the
signal, so to speak. I don't want to get too mystical here, but trying to cleanse the signal.
You get it out, you get it on paper, you objectify it. You identify it as noise, you write it down
and say, this is noise, I'm done with it. If you don't do that, it will hang around up here,
and go around and around with all your other data, and you'll build this big story that it has
little bits of truth, but is mostly baloney. And I know most of you look like you don't like baloney
very well. Maybe you do. Okay. Break, that was mentioned. You want to take a break. When Ingo
taught us, you identify an AOL, you say AOL, break. Break is important because what you're
doing is sending your subconscious a message. You're saying, stop right there. You don't want
to follow down that path. It leads to nowhere. You're telling yourself to break off from that
and return back to where you know the data was accurate, or at least you feel it was accurate.
Okay. So breaking off of there is important, and telling yourself to do that is an important
aspect of it. Doubt. If you start getting confident about your data, feel like you're on, feel like
you're doing well, all right, this is dynamite. This is going to be such a huge success. You are
going to be so embarrassed. You're going to look like half of us did yesterday when we saw what
the actual result was on those tables out there. Doubt what you get. I don't have exactly to
explain that, but don't trust yourself. Now that's not a very good way of saying it either,
because you do need to trust yourself. But don't take yourself too seriously. Maybe that's it.
Maybe somebody else can explain better than me. Anyway, keep your left brain busy.
Okay. Left brain wants to be helpful. Its job in normal life is to interpret events. Its job is to
tell you what's going on. And it does that job very well, normally, under normal circumstances.
When you're remote viewing, it is not normal circumstances, and then it gets in the way.
So if you give it something to do, make it happy, it's going to contribute less to the process
and leave your right brain busy doing what it's supposed to do. How do you keep your left brain
busy? That's one of the reasons for the structure in control of remote viewing. A lot of people
think, oh, it's way complex. There's too much going on. There's all these things you're supposed
to do. I don't want to have anything to do with that. That doesn't have anything to do with being
psychic, so to speak. It serves a number of purposes, actually. One of those is to help
organize your impressions that come in. But it also serves to keep your left brain busy.
If your left brain is sorting out all that structure, then your left brain tends to be left
alone, I'm sorry, your right brain tends to be left alone to do its job. So structure
actually serves a number of benefits, but that's one of them. It keeps your left brain busy.
There are other ways to do that, too, but for most of all, sketch. Now, there's a lot of you
out there who are very verbally oriented folks. Most of you are not women, contrary to myth,
but many of you are. But there's a lot of verbal guys, too. And the tendency is to verbalize every
impression you get. Remember, verbal processes come out of the left brain. And so if you encourage
that, you may get yourself in trouble. Sketching is much more right brain oriented. There is a
place for verbalization, but if you get carried away with it, it'll get you in trouble. Now let's
talk about how you recognize noise. There are a couple of non-intuitive things here. We talk
about remote viewing. We think it has all to do with vision. It all has to do with seeing the
target. It all has to do with mental imagery and visualization. Well, it does to some degree.
But you've got to remember that we have five physical senses that we're used to dealing with.
That means vision is 20 percent of those. You have other 40, 80 percent of your perception,
or at least of your senses, are involved in other things. Now, I'm being a little misleading there,
because actually, although vision is one-fifth of the senses, it actually occupies almost 50 percent
of the brain. So vision is still important, and it occupies a very important part in remote viewing.
But the other senses are important as well. So sometimes they can get you out of trouble that
your visualization, internal visualizing processes will get you into. Okay, but let's talk about
the recognizing internal overlay, or analytical overlay. And this will not be new to many of
you, but it doesn't hurt to review. First thing is counterintuitive. People who don't know anything
about remote viewing think, I get this really bright picture in my mind, and that's got to be
the target. Ironically, that's usually not the target. If you get a clear, bright, sharp, static
image in your mind, 90 to 95 percent of the time, it's got nothing to do with the target.
That's something your left brain is supplying to account for the information it's getting from
your right brain. That's one indicator. If it's a very clear, obvious picture, you're probably wrong.
There are rare occasions when you're not, but you probably are. If you have a comparator word,
what's a comparator word? Like. Man, you guys should have been quicker on that one. Like,
as if, sort of. Okay, here's something I always tell my students. I say, when you say one thing
is like something else, what's the one thing you can absolutely be sure about that first thing?
It's not it. Why not? That's exactly right. If you're comparing two things, that means there
are two things, and one is not the other. Now, again, like anything else, that's not universal.
In many cases, that's true. The target, let's say, is a lighthouse. You say, this thing reminds me
of where it's like a chimney. There's a lot of correlation between the two, but obviously one
is not the other, and you are comparing two things there. Sometimes you will say, the target will
be a lighthouse, and you will say, this is like a lighthouse. You will be accidentally right in
that case. You're comparing it to itself in some way, and you maybe got enough data. We'll talk
about AOL matching here in a second. Finally, well, not finally, hesitation, particularly in
parts of the process where you need to go bang, bang, bang to keep an analysis from creeping in.
If you stop, you say, all right, let's see. It's tall, wide, hard. Let's see. Oh, I know it's a
structure. What are you doing? That's right. You're trying to figure it out. You're analyzing
what it might be. You're analyzing the data. Okay? Hesitation can get you in trouble. Actually
having a rhythmic process through, for the most part, again, not a universal rule, but a rhythmic
process through, keeping up a certain rhythm, can actually benefit you staying on track. Finally,
inflection. Let's see. Okay, it's a wide, rounded, hard, solid lighthouse. What are you doing?
You're guessing. Guessing will almost always be wrong, and even if you're not guessing, you're
doing something even worse. You're trying to elicit information from the monitor. You all have
seen, you know, TV psychics to get up there, and they say, oh, let's see, you have a sister, you
have a dog. You know, they put a question mark on the ends of things, and they're waiting for the
person to respond. Now, I'm not saying they do it even on purpose, but there's a human tendency
to want to elicit information so that you don't have to be psychic. Okay? So, they'll add this
question mark, and even if a person, it's our normal pattern to want to respond to people.
When people ask a question or a favor, we want to respond to them. That's normal. That's ingrained
in us. So, when somebody poses the thing as a question, even if it's just through inflection,
our tendency is, we might say yes or no, but we might imperceptibly nod or shake our heads or
something like that, and that all conveys information. So, if you get a question mark
at the end of an input, you're either guessing or you're trying to elicit information, and
both of those will get you in trouble in remote viewing. Okay? Finally, and I'll wrap this up
because we're way late, I'm sorry to say, when an AOL is almost like the target, we call it AOL
matching. Let me give you an example. Now, let me bring this, let me come back. Oftentimes, you'll
get viewers who come up with sessions that look strikingly like the actual target photo or striking
like the target, and they're very impressed and they're very pleased and they think, look, I
described the target exactly. Well, that's not necessarily true. It may be that they have an
image of a target, a fairly well-known target or something like that target in their minds,
and when the data comes in, it sparks that memory, and their memory is what they're reporting,
not the actual data from the target. That's not necessarily bad. That may convey all the
information you need. But let me show you an example of this. This is another one I did.
I started off with this sketch, and I called an AOL geodesic dome. Then I got this small,
kind of like an etagram like sketch, with kind of a rounded shape in these uprights.
Then you can see this sketch kind of morph. It kind of forms as I go, as I'm trying to capture
this feeling and this impression I have. I move down and try different things out.
And this is my final result. I got this sketch like this, and although that's unfortunately
a bad picture, there was the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul. Some of you have actually seen
this session. I've shown it before. You, of course, get the minarets. You get the dome.
You see these lines here. You get these lines here. Kind of a square pedestal sort of thing
is resting on the same thing here, up here, you know, like that. You see this is quite remarkably,
like the target, as far as remote viewing session goes. I can't say that I didn't have a really
strong remote viewing image of this thing, but I think it's probably more likely that I had a
memory of a mosque like this, and I took some of the data and incorporated it into the memory,
and then that's what I reported on the paper. I would call this AOL matching. There's analysis
involved, because I'm interpreting the actual target, but it's informed by a whole bunch of
actual data that makes it more accurate and more real, more real-seeming.
Okay, so what's the bottom line in trying to avoid remote viewing? Remember, describe,
don't name. Now, that's the end of my session.
