Hello, for those of you who are totally confused, I am Pam Coronado, I'm not Beverly, she's
over there, though I do a lot of work with Beverly, so I'm kind of disappointed I'm
missing her thing right now. I'm here today to pay tribute to Alan Vaughn. He was an
amazing man and a dear friend, and I'll tell you a little bit about him in a
minute. We have a very short little tape I'm going to show, just kind of a little
tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn.
I'm going to do a little tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn, I'm going to show, just kind of a little tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn.
I'm going to do a little tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn, I'm going to show, just kind of a little tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn.
I'm going to do a little tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn, I'm going to show, just kind of a little tribute memorial to Alan Vaughn.
Is that the end?
Is that the end?
Is that the end?
Okay, that's the end of my technology there. Keep it simple. For those of you who
knew Alan Vaughn, he was an amazing person, and he was my teacher, he was my dear friend, and I know he had a big impact on a lot of people here. In a minute I'll explain why I'm here. But Alan passed away on Passover Sunday. I think that was kind of his parting joke to some of us that would appreciate that.
He made probably more contributions to the field of parapsychology than anyone else I can think of, because he came at it from both sides. He was an intuitive and a science researcher.
And his unique position produced 30 years worth of invaluable research into the workings of psych phenomenon. Alan shared this wisdom with the world in seven books and countless articles. And for anybody who's interested, we have some lists outside on our table out there of all of his published works, or at least the best we could do.
In a bit, I am going to share a little sampling of Alan's work. Alan wrote this for last year's conference, and that was just about the time he became ill. And he asked me if I would come and present for him last year. And I was in an emotional state, not doing so well, so I'm doing it this year to honor him.
As a scientist, Alan was well known and respected for his critical thinking, thorough investigation, and boundless curiosity. He was a pioneer. I don't think there was anything that he would not explore.
As an intuitive, Alan was even more impressive. In fact, he holds the record for the most successful predictor in the world. Some of his predictions are legendary.
Just to name a few, in May of 1968, Alan wrote a letter to Stanley Kripner, the director of Maimonides Dream Laboratory in Brooklyn, stating that Robert Kennedy would be shot within weeks. Kennedy was assassinated on June 5, 1968.
Alan also predicted, in writing and submitted to the Central Permanentions Registry, the Watergate scandal in the second half of the Nixon administration, an attack on the Pope in 1970, a delay of the Columbia launch date from May 17 to exactly April 12, 1981, and the Challenger disaster.
Alan's prediction regarding the Challenger is in his 1982 book, The Edge of Tomorrow, in which he wrote, a shuttle launch will have severe malfunctions that could threaten the space program.
Four years later, the tragic explosion of the Challenger on January 28, 1986 was initially termed a major malfunction by NASA. It was nearly three years before NASA launched another manned flight.
In 1997, Alan predicted that the Mars probe scheduled to land six months from then on July 4 would stop transmitting as it got closer to Mars.
His prediction was aired in February on the television show Strange Universe. It was in July that serious communication problems with the probe began.
So I thought today would be kind of fun to try a little experiment ourselves and do a little future remote viewing. So we're going to just have fun with this and we're going to do something which has been called the chair.
And the way it works is that I have randomly selected a chair in the audience and in a minute I'll point out which chair that is and everyone in the room can kind of focus on that chair.
And what I want you to do is try to imagine who's going to come in and sit in that chair a little bit later towards the end. We'll have someone sit in that chair and see how you did. So you don't want to be wandering around in the hall in about 25 minutes and get hauled in here.
So I know you guys have been put through several remote viewing experiments I think over the last day or so. If you haven't, what you want to do is the fourth row here.
One, two, three, four. There's an empty chair there if everyone can see right here in front of the woman in the blue shirt. If you can kind of look at that chair, I would have the person stand up but there's no one there.
So you want to kind of focus on that chair and concentrate. I'm going to give you a few minutes. I'll be quiet in a minute. And just kind of conjure up who's going to sit in that chair.
Male or female? What color hair? Approximate age? Just use your imagination. You don't have to stress. If you have no idea, take the wild, wild guess and we'll just have fun with it.
So I'm going to be quiet, let you concentrate. I'm going to try this myself and hopefully I'll do better than I did at the spoon bending thing.
And we'll see. So I'll give you guys a couple of minutes. You might want to use your notepads and write down what you pick up.
So if you do something great, you can show everybody. It'll be on tape. Just kind of write down your impressions.
It's probably easiest to start with a male or female and work from there.
Oh, and there's no use trying to read my mind for any intuitives out there because I don't have a clue who's going to end up in that chair.
Who needs a little more time? Everybody got it?
Okay. Now what I'm going to share is this paper was written by Alan. Like I said, he planned on presenting it last year.
So I will try to do justice if I demolish somebody's name. Forgive me. Do the best I can.
Many people think that psychic ability should work like electricity. Just flick on a mental switch and the psychic light comes on.
But there are restricting psychological factors, some quite subtle, that determine precognitive remote viewing success.
Because I don't have slides up here for you, I'm going to number these main points for whoever's taking notes and I'll try to go slow so you can get it.
And I'll repeat if you need me to.
Number one, logical left brain knowledge of current situations hinders accurate precognition of their outcome.
I'll say that again. Logical left brain knowledge of current situations hinders accurate precognition of their outcome.
In simple terms, the less you know about a situation, the easier it is to make accurate predictions regarding it.
In Douglas Dean's experiments with psychic Carol Laeros, she was able to predict the outcome of yes-no situations in the lives of students with 80% accuracy.
The students were only 60% accurate in predicting the outcome of these events in their own lives. As I work as an intuitive, I find this to be very, very true.
The less I know about a person, the easier it is to tune into future events and the more I know someone, the more difficult it becomes.
A 1979 survey of predictions made over 50 years by experts in areas such as financial markets, economics, politics, psychology, science, and medicine
showed that logical expertise gave no significant advantage. That trend continues.
Financial World's study of stock market predictions made by the top 20 top financial analysts of 1980 showed that they bombed out only two-thirds of their stock picks.
A study by Wall Street Journal of the top analysts stock predictions for six months showed that a more successful outcome was given by throwing darts.
A TV contest between a chimp who chose stocks at random and an expert stockbroker saw the chimp winning by a mile.
The stockbroker vowed to eat more bananas. I didn't write that.
A comparison of predictive skill about economics was made by researcher David Loy with three groups of college students, grad students in social science at UC Berkeley,
grad students attending a futures forecasting seminar at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, and students at UCLA who are studying psychic phenomena.
The UCLA students of psychic phenomena outperform the other groups.
Our culture over trains people to think logically.
With the result, the left brain logical thinking overpowers the weaker signal coming from the intuitive right brain.
So paradoxically, the less you know about a situation, the better you may be able to predict its outcome.
Number two, a win-win situation promotes psychic success.
Motives and attitudes of all people involved in psychic experiments can affect the outcome.
The successful real life experiments should benefit both the participants and the wider public.
As a counter-exampling, gambling merely moves money from one pocket to another at the expense of others.
Thus, a win-lose situation.
Being here in Vegas, I guess some of us intuitives can relate to this because it just doesn't seem to work.
An example of a win-win versus a win-lose situation is shown by an experiment with the celebrated psychic Gerard Cresset.
In the 1950s, a casino owner approached Cresset about a theoretical test of precognition at a racetrack in France.
The casino owner promised he would not bet.
At the track, Enkilar observed as Cresset took a racing form and checked off its predictions for winners of seven races.
All seven horses came in against astronomical odds.
The casino owner begged Cresset to stay another day to repeat the experiment and vowed he would not bet.
The next day, Cresset again marked his seven choices for winners.
The first was wrong, as was the second.
When his choice for the third race also lost, Cresset said to the owner,
You bet, didn't you?
The casino owner confessed that he had.
Yes, I just couldn't resist.
Cresset's exceptional precognitive ability would not work in a win-lose situation.
I have to testify to that.
At number three, beliefs, both conscious and subconscious, can determine psychic success or failure.
Beliefs, especially strong convictions based on experience, that an experiment will work tend to be fulfilled.
However, when there is conflicting subconscious belief, the subconscious will win out.
A famous example of this subconscious conflict is provided by the spiritual healer and psychic Edgar Casey,
who tried to save his organization from bankruptcy during the Depression by psychically locating oil.
The venture was completely unsuccessful.
Casey's strong inner conviction that his gifts should be used only for spiritual purposes
is stronger than his conscious goal to find the desperately needed money.
People who are oriented toward making money in business can be successful in using their own intuitive abilities
to foresee money-making opportunities.
In their book, executive ESP, Douglas Dean and John Mielowski showed that 80% of a group of company presidents
who doubled their profits in five years scored above chance on precognition tests.
The presidents whose companies lost money all scored below average.
A good example of business intuition, the super success of McDonald's.
The McDonald's chain was not foreseen by accountants who advised Ray Kroc against the purchase.
But Ray's funny bone told him to go against their advice.
Kroc's intuition manifested as throwing things out of the window, cursing colorfully,
and calling his lawyer to say give them anything they want.
The rest is history.
Number five, people who are oriented toward the future are significantly better at predicting it.
A recent study by Alan Bond shows that people who score as future-oriented on this four-item attitude test
toward the future questionnaire outscore others significantly with odds of 200 to 1
in a precognition success test modeled after Dean Mielowski's test,
65% of the future group scored above chance.
In seven out of seven comparisons, the future group has outscored others with odds of 100 to 1.
I took part in that study that Alan Bond did,
and there were four questions on our attitude toward the future, whether we looked forward to the future, feared the future,
kind of our attitudes about the future.
And people who were optimistic and looked forward to the future and saw great possibilities in the future
were the ones that scored highest on the test, were also the ones who did well in the precognition tests.
Closed-mind skepticism can either deflect psychic functionings or block it altogether.
An example of a skeptical examiner causing a displacement with a talented subject
was Robert Bandy Castle's experience with a skeptical dream researcher
who was trying to replicate the Maimonides dream telepathy studies.
Bandy Castle, now a noted dream researcher, dreamed in great detail about a picture,
a naked chicken wearing a vest, not seen by the telepathic sender.
The experimenter's skepticism apparently induced Bandy Castle to switch to precognitive mode
and dream about an interesting picture he would see in the future as part of the target pool.
In this way, the examiner can confirm his belief that telepathy was impossible,
and Bandy Castle can confirm his belief that he could dream psychically.
Researchers and all others involved in psychic experiments should have PSI-condusive personalities,
such as positive, warm, open, enthusiastic, and flexible.
The opposite type of personality, cold, rigid, egotistical, inhibits psychic success.
So basically, if your researcher expects you to fail, you probably will.
The future is flexible, and therefore precognition cannot be as accurate as same-time psychic perception.
Precognition could be shown to be nearly 100% accurate over thousands of trials.
It would prove that the future is absolutely predetermined.
Fortunately, there is no evidence that remotely suggests that the future can be absolutely foreseen.
In a closed laboratory system that does not greatly affect anyone's life,
higher accuracy and precognition can be.
In an informal experiment at SRI International in Menlo Park, California,
physicists energetically bounced a coin against a wall,
while another scientist who had earlier demonstrated exceptional psychic skills
predicted the outcome for 33 tosses.
The odds against chance were 8.6 billion to one.
The psychic scientist attributed half of his success to psychic skill and the other half to chance.
The majority vote or group consensus technique can enhance precognitive success in real-life situations.
In 1967, Allen elicited predictions from many psychics in England about major events in the future.
The future events about which there was a consensus did in fact happen a few years earlier,
such as writing books on psychic research and moving to California to work for a psychic magazine.
In 1975, Allen studied the predictions of 14 psychics about President Ford.
By a considerable consensus, 13 to 1, the psychics voted that President Ford would not be re-elected in 1976.
At Allen's suggestion, the San Francisco Chronicle polled six psychics for yes-no answers to five burning issues of 1977,
such as will Patty Hearst be in jail?
Who will win the Super Bowl?
Oakland or Minnesota?
The consensus was 100% correct for all five questions,
though the best that any individual psychic did was 80%.
In the 1980s, Allen Vaughn worked for a Los Angeles consultant service, Psychic Enterprises, headed by businessman Glenn Nicol.
Psychic Enterprises advised business clients on the basis of consensus predictions from a group of psychics.
When a fast food chain asked about franchising a ribs restaurant,
my response from the group was that chicken would sell better.
Thus, El Puyoloco was born.
Apparently, that group did not survive because businesses were too embarrassed to say that they were consulting a group of psychics,
and so they collapsed.
Number 10, high emotional impact and meaningfulness of future feedback favor precognitive success.
In 1968, Gerard Cressette performed a similar experiment when he described in detail
a person randomly chosen from an audience at a hall two or more days in advance.
In 1968, Allen witnessed Cressette describe in detail two days in advance,
both the person chosen by chance and another person who jumped up on stage to translate.
Cressette said his best results came when filming of his predictions and the fulfillment attitude, the excitement.
Poor results were obtained for the chair experiment when it became too routine for Cressette.
I sent her out there to get someone to come sit in the chair so that we could go on with that.
Hopefully, they'll be in in a minute.
Psychics need to make contact with the specific target in real life situations,
such as handling information about the target or being given the name and location of a person or company.
Contact can come through the future experience of the psychic or through the future experience of the client.
I have found that to be true myself, the closer you are to the person or have something of theirs,
the easier it is to clue in on their target.
Precognitive remote viewing experiments work best when the subject's emotions are engaged and actually visiting or describing sight during feedback,
rather than merely being shown pictures of the sight.
For those who've worked on any of the military targets, a lot of times after a few days of working on their targets,
they will show you slides or pictures of the target, which is a thrill,
but it's not nearly as exciting as actually going there and seeing what you saw in your mind.
Okay, we have a victim.
For all of those that participated earlier, I wrote down your impressions.
You can take note of who's sitting in the chair.
Did you tell her what was happening?
Yeah, why don't you stand up?
Thank you.
Does anybody have anything really thrilling to share?
I wrote down brown hair, female, white shoes and red blouse.
That would be you.
You got the female part right.
And the red blouse, brown hair.
Well, she's wearing yellow.
Though yesterday she was wearing a red blouse.
Very good.
I had a Caucasian woman, blue dress.
I had a blonde woman and I mixed up with the green shirt with her.
Maybe that's what she's going to wear tomorrow.
I'm hoping for blue because that's what I got.
I perceive that two people would walk in sort of like one hesitate and then the other one sit down like sort of like a dupe,
but I AOL'd Angela first.
Oh, did you? Okay.
You know, I think that's who I was seeing too.
That's interesting.
Anybody else?
No.
I also saw a female.
But my female and about the same color hair, but she was wearing blue.
So maybe that's what you'll do tomorrow.
So that was just a little bit of fun there for an experiment.
It's kind of surprising, isn't it?
So it's kind of fun when you're just playing around and just kind of seeing what you can do.
And you know, sometimes you accidentally hit it.
So it's fun.
They've also found that when no feedback is given to subjects, results are consistently a chance.
So feedback is a really important part of learning how to remote view.
That's why I had her come in here today so you could all see how you did.
And you should never be discouraged if you didn't get it quite right because you never know.
I mean, something really strange could happen like she could get up and leave and during the next session,
your person could come in and sit in that chair so you should never count yourself as that you made a mistake
or you just, you know, you can't do this because a lot of times there's surprises.
If as Alan theorized, precognitive information is accessed the same way as memories of the past
with trivial events being stored in short-term memory and high emotional events entering long-term memory,
you'd expect that effective precognitive targets must provide sufficient emotional feedback
for them to stand out over other events.
That is, the farther into the future one wants to see, the more emotional or meaningful the target should be.
I find it much easier myself to predict momentous life events such as marriage or the birth of a child
in some very emotional, highly charged situation.
The same holds true for precognitive dreams.
In a precognitive dream experiment, Alan found that the most detailed dreams of the distant future
were usually interesting and emotional events including a search for the lost ships of Columbus and Jamaica in 1985,
which he had dreamed about 16 years prior.
And a sailing adventure to Madagascar in the Indian Ocean, which he had dreamed about 21 years prior.
In my own precognitive dream experiences, I dreamed details of the events surrounding a child kidnapping
several years before the abduction actually took place.
Obviously an emotional, very highly charged emotional event.
Trivial targets and forced choice tests show the same decline over time as does short term memory.
Traditional forced choice tests with small numbers of known potential targets such as ESP cards,
random event generators that give feedback in the form of a green light or a red light,
promote guessing and produce mediocre results.
Numbers and names make extremely poor psychic targets.
Names and numbers are stored in the left brain and are only rarely accessible to mainly right brain psychic perception.
Even the highly talented cross set could never give the number that would be drawn by chance from an audience member,
but he would describe the person and their personal characteristics.
Numbers can be predicted when they are converted to pictures.
Allen was successful at using this strategy for economic forecasting.
A technique for converting numbers into right brain targets is called associative remote viewing.
The most famous experiment using this technique was done by physicist Russell Tard
and psychologist Keith Herrary to forecast silver futures correctly in nine initial attempts,
which netted their investor $120,000 profit.
When the investor pressed them to do the experiments more, often at half of their commission,
the second series were all incorrect, and the third series by another viewer displaced onto wrong targets.
Tard theorized that when greed enters the picture, psychic ability is adversely affected.
The technique, however, was so sophisticated, the viewer would visualize which of four unknown objects would be given him the next week,
with each object representing whether the market would go up a little, go up a lot, go down a little, or go down a lot.
The best precognitive results usually come from psychics who have established good track records.
A highly successful lab study is the precognitive dream experiment,
done by the late Malcolm Besent, who scored 14 hits out of 16 attempts to dream about future target experiences.
Sugarland, Texas, psychic Sean Harabance, who 30 years ago excelled at laboratory ESP,
has now created a formidable track record of predicting financial markets.
His standout prediction about the stock market crash of October 1987 was published over a year in advance.
Out of 93 published predictions, 72 were rated as correct.
He had a 77% success rate.
People can be trained in precognitive skills with psychic reward software.
Alan spent many years developing this software called psychic reward,
and there was a version you could play on your computer.
There was also a version he was working on for handheld, kind of like Game Boy thing,
and I was deeply involved with him in this project,
and I got kind of addicted to it, because when you got to play it, it was actually a lot of fun.
It was a wheel, and it was divided into 26 sections, and each section had a letter.
So what you would try to do was guess which letter was going to come up.
What was unique about it was that if you even came close, you still got some points,
and the farther away from it, the actual target, the less points you got,
and it figured all the statistics and all that for you.
So Alan Vaughn was developing that with Jack Hawk, who was here doing the PK Party.
A lot of people don't realize that practice and something like playing a computer game like that
can increase your abilities,
but with some of the testing we did, we showed that that is indeed the case.
A pilot study by Alan Vaughn and Jack Hawk shows that the majority of psychic reward trainees
improve their ability to protect electronic targets.
Together, the 12 subjects achieved both significant improvements,
as well as overall significant scores.
A new study by Vaughn and two trainees, myself being one of them,
used 17 files of psychic reward to train a person in psychokinesis,
fast and easy way, before attempting a precognition file.
The last half of data was highly significant, with odds of 100,000 to 1,
and showed significant improvements over the first half of the data.
The last file, which was done in precognition mode, was significant.
So when I say that we did several trials of psychokinesis,
that was where I would choose the letter,
and I would try to get the computer to choose my letter,
rather than trying to guess what the computer was going to generate.
So I would pick one letter and stay with it through the entire test,
and I could actually get it to hit on that letter so many times above chance
that the odds were 100,000 to 1.
Somehow my PK skills didn't transfer over to flatware.
For those of you who are interested or would like to try psychic reward,
I think you can still download it from Alan's website.
I think if you go to www.alanvon.com, you can still download that software.
If not, you can hunt down Jack Hawk somewhere around here,
and he is taking over psychic reward.
It's an amazing program, and I really hope that it gets the attention it deserves
because it was a really incredible tool.
I have no idea how we're doing on time.
Doing just fine. You've got about 10 more minutes.
Does anybody have any questions at this point?
I'll bring the microphone up.
Is there anything I've said so far? I went over too fast, or do you have a question?
Could you just repeat that website, please?
Yes, www.alanvon.com.
Okay, got another one over here.
It seemed to me I heard you say something like,
what closer you are to, or if you have something that belonged to a person in remote viewing,
you could be more accurate.
Yes.
Is that correct?
Yes.
Does that have anything to do with the PK, or is that what PK is?
No. What PK is psychokinesis is affecting matter with your mind,
which if anybody went to the PK party last night and there were bending forks and stuff,
that's what psychokinesis is.
There's people who supposedly can move things across the room, or that's psychokinesis.
Okay, we've got a real tough question for you, I'm sure.
No, actually, it should be very easy.
I was trying to find a copy of Patterns of Prophecy and wasn't able to find one available in the bookstores.
Do you have any idea how I could get ahold of one?
You can contact Carolyn Koch.
She's up here raising her hand.
She's kind of taking care of Alan's estate and some of the business affairs,
and she should be able to help you with that.
Is it still in print?
We have a few copies, because I guess it's not in print anymore.
And like I said, for those who are interested, we left out on the table a list of some of his writings.
He wrote so many articles, I don't think we could possibly get all of them, but we tried.
We've got one back here.
You mentioned a show on somebody from Texas.
Last name, please.
Let me go back.
Yeah, that was somebody from Sugar Beat Texas or something, huh?
Sugar Land?
Sugar Land.
Suburb of Houston.
Okay, I will give that to you as soon as I find that.
I'm from Texas, but I'm not Sean.
It came right after your reference to Malcolm Doucet.
Okay.
What was the subject matter, do you recall?
Predict in the financial market, 72 out of 90.
The average is 77%.
Okay, well, I'll find it in a minute, and I will get that to you.
Okay, anybody else?
I know I haven't done justice to some of these last names either, so.
Okay, you have a question in your eyes there.
Is it just confused by life in general?
Got it.
Okay.
Anybody else?
Oh, yes.
Where would you find room 320 to find Jack and his machines and ask him about the game?
Jack Hawk?
Yeah, 320.
I don't know where to find it.
I wondered if anybody knew.
Probably third floor.
Third floor.
Oh, is that where he's staying?
I don't know.
Yeah, that's probably his hotel room.
Okay, well, I'm not going to tell you to go knock on this door because he'll be after me.
It's a trick question.
But I'm sure you'll see Jack walking around down here, and then you can...
But he's definitely taking over, I believe, taking over and going to help develop the hand-held version of Psychic Reward.
Okay, anybody else?
Nothing.
Okay, well, I breezed through this so fast.
They're a great job.
Next time.
That's very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Don't ever, ever use remote viewing to play Kino numbers.
Have you heard about our experiment we did last night?
We, in Hawaii, ahead of time at 1330 Cedarial, played 400 games of Kino, brought it to the casino, and got our butts kicked last night.
It was a massacre.
It was the Saturday Night Massacre.
We're going to publish the data on our website, and it may be...
We may have beaten chance, but we certainly didn't beat the house, so our great Kino experiment was not too good.
I want to tell you a quick story about a cat, a very remarkable cat named Smoky.
Back when I lived in Salt Lake City a few years ago, I was a television reporter for NBC there, and I did a feature story on a really interesting cat named Smoky.
Smoky lived at a feed store in Murray, Utah, which is south of Salt Lake City, and a very popular cat.
All the people knew him.
He hung out there at the store and was a pet.
One day, a rancher from Idaho came down to buy some feed, backed his truck into the loading dock, and they loaded the sacks of feed there.
And then the rancher, coming to the big city, Salt Lake City, wanted to spend some time, go see some people, go to lunch, so he left his truck there.
Apparently, Smoky the cat got in the back of the truck and took a little nap.
So the rancher comes, drives his truck back up to the ranch in Idaho, and as he gets across the state line, the Utah, Idaho border, he's pumping gas into his truck,
and he looks in the back and he goes, oh my god, it's the cat from the feed store.
So he's here, boy, kitty, kitty, and the cat jumps off, scampers off into the brush, and disappears.
So the rancher spends about an hour of Smoky here, kitty, kitty, cat doesn't show up.
So he drives back to his ranch, calls the feed store owner and says, your cat is in Idaho.
It was about 120 miles as the crow flies, probably a great deal farther than that as the cat walks, because you probably know how this story is going to end.
A month later, and I did this story, in drags this skinny poor Smoky, most of his weight, his fur was matted and just had lost fur, his legs were almost paralyzed,
but by God he walked home, he found his way.
Now how many of you think that that cat had some mystical magical powers that we humans don't?
How many of you think that that cat was smarter than us humans?
There are a number of studies published in the scientific literature that show that animals have direction finding ability, seemingly intuitive abilities to find their way,
from snails and slugs to monarch butterflies to cats and dogs, homing pigeons, yes, even human beings.
Let's dim the lights and go to the slides here.
So we're talking about, yeah, it helps if you turn it on.
Okay, thanks.
Direction finding and remote viewing, this is something that has eluded most schools of remote viewing up until now.
We've never seen any methodology that has a precise, structured and accurate way to determine location within a remote viewing session.
We've seen people try to use dowsing.
We've seen some dangle pendulums over a map or maybe draw crude maps of their own in session and then compare those maps to known topographical images on a known map.
Nobody's really showed you a structured methodology to do this precisely and accurately.
But in many remote viewing sessions, the location might be the most important data you could want.
There are some targets where you don't want to know what it looks like or smells like or sounds like.
You just might want to know where it is.
Where's the missing child?
Where's the sunken Soviet submarine?
Where is the downed airplane?
Where's the missing ship?
Where's the murderer hiding?
Where's the buried treasure?
As Valtra told you, I'm from the Hawaii Remote Viewers Guild.
We have the largest collection of just lame Kino players in the world.
No, we actually were terrible at Kino, but we're pretty good at remote viewing.
We have the largest group of trained remote viewers, civilian remote viewers, in one location in the world.
We are a non-profit organization.
No one gets paid for viewing.
No one in our group gets paid for teaching.
This is all about just disseminating information about remote viewing and demonstrating remote viewing.
If you haven't seen our website, it's www.hrvg.org.
We get about 250,000 hits a month.
We have trained people around the world.
I think we have some people here that we've trained via our online training, but mostly we train in-house.
One of the reasons we get so many hits, a quarter million every month, is that we publish data.
We publish full sessions at the Hawaii Remote Viewers Guild.
We don't make statements about remote viewing or conclusions or predictions.
We don't say anything without showing you the data and the analysis.
We have about 200 full sessions with analysis, both operational, validation, a few esoteric targets sprinkled in there.
If you go there, you can click through and see examples of our remote viewing.
That's Glenn Wheaton when he was in the Special Forces with his Green Beret, a little younger, a little thinner.
Here he is today.
Glenn was a remote viewer for the Special Forces Remote Viewing Unit.
Our methodology comes from that methodology.
He is now the President of the Remote Viewers Guild.
The data that I show you, the methodology that I show you today comes through him, and he doesn't accept a nickel for teaching us.
One of the things they were very interested in in Special Forces was finding direction without a compass or equipment.
If you had a Special Forces operative in hostile territory, maybe he didn't have a compass or had lost his equipment.
It was in a situation where he might be in triple canopy jungle and couldn't even see the sun to determine location.
Could this person find his way where he needed to go by dead reckoning or intuition?
Now, it's my understanding that Special Forces did some research into this.
It has not been public.
This is something that you might be able to do a Freedom of Information Act or might be able to find now because I think it might be becoming declassified.
There were some studies that were done in the public sector that were published, the Human Compass.
This was done by Robin R. Baker.
The Sense of Magnetism was a study that was published in New Scientist back in 1980.
This he developed into a book which was also published 20 years ago, Human Navigation in the Sixth Sense.
And these studies were very interesting.
What they did was they took people and they blindfolded them.
The search term for this, of course, is spatial awareness and direction finding or finding direction.
They took test subjects and they blindfolded them.
And then they drove them around and disoriented them, took them to a remote location, kept them blindfolded out in the woods, spun them around so that they were completely disoriented.
And then they said to the test subjects, which way is north?
And while still blindfolded, they would say, that way is north.
And then they would say to them, which way is your home?
And they'd say, my home is that way.
And they were able to do this accurately to within 30 degrees.
That's significant to be able to intuitively do that within 30 degrees.
And what's fascinating to me is when they took the blindfold off and had them try it, the performance actually went down.
So when you had the visual input, you didn't do as well.
Now, I want to move away from remote viewing and intuition to just nuts and bolts, finding direction.
This is the kind of thing that they teach in the Boy Scouts, how to find an unknown location from two known locations.
There are two ways to do it, intersection and resection.
In intersection, let's say that you don't know where that is, but you want to determine this location on a map.
But you know this location and you know this location.
You can take compass bearings from both the known locations, that's called intersection, and determine an unknown location.
Resection, if you're lost in the woods and you have a map and a compass, but you can see a mountaintop here and a mountaintop here,
you can take a bearing to that and a bearing to that and you can plot your location.
Intersection and resection, they teach it to the Boy Scouts.
Now, how can we use this skill in remote viewing and use it intuitively?
Okay, first of all, I want to show you an example of how this is done in real life, non-remote viewing.
Let's say we have a fire spotter here.
This guy is named Harold, the fire spotter, and he's up in his fire tower in the Green Tree National Forest.
And he looks out and he sees some smoke over here in the distance.
But he doesn't know if that wisp of smoke is coming two miles away from two gullies over or a few miles beyond the next ridge.
But he's got to determine quickly where that is.
He enlists some help.
Here's Harold up here on Notch Top Mountain.
And he knows that he takes a compass reading and he determines that that's 098 degrees.
That's the direction of the smoke.
Now, we've got another guy down here on another fire spotter stationed on Flat Top Mountain.
So he takes a bearing and he says that's a bearing of 047 degrees.
So they intersect, by intersection, you can determine the location, a few terms for you.
That 098 magnetic and 047 magnetic, those are called azimuths, where you plot the azimuth on a map that's called a line of bearing.
So you have two lines of bearing that intersect and you can report that, hey, that fire is two miles up Sheep Dip Canyon and get the firefighters there.
Another definition, where are these two lines of bearing intersect that's called a cut?
If you had a third spotter up there on a third location, could give you a third line of bearing that's called a fix.
So if you have three known locations and you can give me the direction from three known locations, then you're able to fix the unknown location on a map.
Now, using this in remote viewing, when you remote view, you displace a portion of your subconscious awareness to the target and you bring back sensory data.
After you've worked a target for 45 minutes or an hour, you should have good target contact.
Let me give you a few examples real quickly of what we consider good target contact at the Hawaii Remote Viewers Guild.
We work all our targets either blind or double blind, absolutely no front loading at all.
So here's one that I worked a few weeks ago, double blind, and this is, we usually show the whole sessions, don't have time here, this is an excerpt.
I looked and I saw a guy in a uniform look like he had a pack on, I saw these straps and he had something strapped on in front of him.
Feedback was, it was members of the 82nd Airborne preparing to jump.
Now that's what we consider good target contact.
Valtra, who introduced me today, did this, she was given only the target ID H7X2D9E4, double blind, monitored, but the monitor was blind.
This was produced solo.
The target was the Russian Revolution.
She drew the angry mob, the palace, and she had a person inside, she said that these people were angry, they had a coup attempt, they were going to overthrow this person.
The Russian Revolution, the overthrow of Tsar Nicholas, that's what we consider good target contact.
Here's one we did for a skeptic.
The skeptic had the picture, he was the only person who had the target cue and the photo in his possession.
He actually wrapped it up in tinfoil, gave us, he thought if it's in tinfoil you won't be able to penetrate it, but he thought we were doing something tricky.
He gave us only the target ID, I produced this sketch and that was him bungee jumping, so that's what we consider good target ID.
Another example, you know what, that's a long story.
He pulled a real, he gave us a target ID that was F4U.
It was the designation of a Corsair fighter in World War II and he knew that.
In his intent, the target was him bungee jumping and this designates a Corsair fighter.
Seven of our viewers drew single-engine propeller-driven aircraft and one drew a Corsair, the Gullwing, so we got a combination of data.
He ran a game on us.
Skeptics, you can just never trust them.
Anyway, they always want to, you know, they don't do it, they don't play fair.
It was Hindenburg, the viewer drew the Hindenburg, double-blind, that's good target contact.
This is one that's on our session that you ought to look at the whole session, it's really good.
The target was the Valley Temple in Egypt and the viewer drew the stone arches and said it was an entrance.
This one was interesting, when we view and we go to S5, which is altered state, sort of ERV, the target can play out as a little movie.
And what I saw was, I said I saw this guy in black jumping up and down and a guy in white circling him.
And I said, this looked like some type of competition or choreographed dance or some type of athletic thing involving jumping up and down.
And I had a really nice little movie playing out for a little while.
Well, the target was the karate scene from The Matrix, filming that.
So it wasn't really a fight and I got a sense that it was just this rehearsed jumping around.
Another good one, this is a bank building fire, I looked, I saw the, I very clearly saw this, I remember this,
I saw the building with smoke pouring out of it.
This is a good one, I cued this one, I was the only person who had this one in my possession.
I gave the target ID to a third party who then published it out to the viewers.
And one of the viewers drew this water, mountains in the background, pipeline going out to the water, a fence, smokestacks,
and he labeled this as electrical generating facility.
And the target was the kahe power plant on the island of Oahu.
So that's when we mean target contact and you're going to task a viewer to determine directional data.
If they have this kind of target contact, they're able to do it.
Now, how we go about doing this.
Any and all information about the target may be obtained through the signal line.
All information may be obtained through the signal line.
But if you don't task the viewer on target to obtain directional data,
or if your methodology doesn't allow for the determination of directional data, then you'll never get it, you'll never find it.
So we have a viewer in session with good target contact.
How do we do this?
First, a little bit of the history.
I'm sure some of you people know what an O5D is.
An O5D in the military is an electronic warfare cryptologic interceptor radio direction finder, commonly known as O5D.
What O5Ds do is they use very sophisticated equipment to determine the direction of a radio signal.
You want to know where a radio signal is coming from?
They use this equipment and they can give you a magnetic bearing to the signal.
But O5Ds played a little game.
What they used to try to do was they would sit there without their equipment and they'd say,
I bet you I can tell you where this signal is coming from without the equipment.
I'm going to do it intuitively.
So it became sort of a little O5D rodeo or an O5D game they'd played.
They'd sit a guy in a swivel chair and they'd tape a yardstick to the chair,
and then they'd actually draw a compass on the carpet on the ground.
So that would be north, that would be 90 degrees, that would be 270, 180.
And they'd feed the guy a signal and without the equipment he'd spin there in his chair
and he'd say 047 degrees.
They'd have someone off here with the radio direction finding equipment
and they'd say that was 051.
If he got within 5 degrees, that was considered a hit.
So in special forces when they were developing their remote viewing program,
they early on realized that hey, there are a lot of targets,
there are a lot of situations where we need to know the direction to the target.
So what they'd do is they'd employ the O5Ds because the O5Ds were the guys
that had demonstrated the skills.
So the remote viewers in the special forces unit would be over here working their methodology
and they'd get the O5D and they'd put them in the circle and they'd say find it
and they were able to do it.
But they refined it because if you can put a guy's awareness inside a circle on the ground,
why not in session draw a circle on your paper and your circle on the paper is oriented
so that that's north, that's east, okay, 090 degrees.
And then you draw the direction, the azimuth, the line of bearing to target.
It's just as if you were placing your awareness in that circle on the paper
and then querying your subconscious awareness, what's the direction to target?
Now, in order, we determined that remote viewers determined direction
using great circle azimuths.
As I stand here today and I know that that is north, well, then Hawaii,
my home would be that direction.
If I went on a bearing roughly there, I'd go to Hawaii.
But if I also went 180 degrees opposite, I'd also get to Hawaii.
It'd be a lot longer flight.
I'd go all the way around the earth, but I'd come back.
So remote viewers determined direction using great circle azimuths
and we take a front azimuth and a back azimuth.
You need, when you're remote viewing, you're not a fire spotter up on the mountain here
up on the Green Tree National Forest.
But you need three known locations.
So let's say that you have a missing child somewhere here in the Green Tree National Forest.
You want a remote viewer to find that child for you.
You need three known locations to use your intersection.
So you're going to use Joe Mills Mountain, Notch Top Mountain, and Flat Top Mountain.
But you can't tell the viewer that because the viewer needs to remote view double blind.
We don't front load.
You can't say to the viewer, hey, there's a missing child in this forest.
And we're going to give your reference locations as the top of Joe Mills Mountain
and the top of Notch Top Mountain.
That's too much data.
It's too much front loading.
Just give the viewer a target ID and encrypted reference coordinates.
Let's say you were using your baseline as Seattle, Los Angeles, San Diego.
And you said to the viewer, we're going to find something and your encrypted locations are
Seattle, Los Angeles, and San Diego.
Well, the viewer would start thinking, hmm, if I go this way, it's on land.
But maybe it's a missing boat or plane.
It could be in the ocean.
So you're going to get your conscious mind trying to mull this over.
It's much better to just say to the viewer, your target ID is this number or letter sequence.
And you got encrypted reference locations 101, 202, 303.
So the viewer is not told where the locations are.
He's only given encrypted reference locations.
When the target here target tears it, he has to make a conscious association in his intent.
The target here sits down and says, 101 is Joe Mills Mountain.
202 is Notch Top Mountain.
303 is Flat Top Mountain.
So what you publish to the viewer is an operational target ID and three encrypted reference locations.
Now, what I'm doing here today is not meant to be instruction or training in this procedure,
because I don't have time.
And we usually train viewers for about six months before we give them this protocol or this methodology.
So I'm only here to familiarize you with the theory behind it.
But what you need to know is that the viewer in session realizes that there is an encrypted location,
that those numbers represent a real place and he needs to send his awareness,
displace a portion of his awareness to those locations.
Then the viewer in session displaces his awareness to that location.
And then the viewer executes a directional ideogram from each encrypted location to the target.
So what you get is this.
In session, the viewer is drawn a circle and he's oriented, so that represents north, that's southeast, and west.
The viewer displaces his awareness to 101 and draws a directional ideogram, which is also a line of bearing.
So how do you take that data and get useful information, say, to find your missing child in the forest?
The viewer uses a protractor to determine the lines of bearing.
So you're given military protractors, you place your protractor, you align it on the paper,
so that's north and you take your line of bearing and you write it down.
That information is given to an analyst, then an analyst plots it on a map.
If the viewer has done his or her job correctly, this is what you get on the map, a fix.
Here's one line of bearing, here's another one from an encrypted location, and here's another one.
Where they meet, that triangle is called a fix.
To make this more usable, user-friendly, we determine the Steiner point.
And to determine the Steiner point of the triangle, you bisect each angle.
So you bisect that angle and draw a line down, you bisect that angle and draw a line over, bisect that angle.
That's your Steiner point.
You then determine the square units of your triangle.
So if this is kilometers or meters or miles, you use a formula here, a mathematic formula,
to determine the area of the triangle, and then another formula to change that into an elliptical area.
So that then becomes your search area, with that the most likely starting point,
and you plot that on a map as your search area.
There are a number of types of errors that can crop up in this.
Just as there are a number of types of errors that can crop up in Kino.
The first one is viewer headspace.
We all know that remote viewing is not 100%.
No viewer is on 100% all the time.
So a viewer might give you a few lines of bearing that are good and might lose his concentration for a moment.
The viewer might be on or off when he's doing the entire session.
So viewer headspace, viewer orientation.
The viewer is supposed to dispatch his awareness to the target with a north-facing orientation.
Sometimes viewers will be facing south.
And so you have to turn all their data, and that's done by the analysts.
Sometimes viewers will get there, and they'll all be 12 degrees off.
And overdoing many targets and check bearings, you can determine the viewer's orientation
and any little idiosyncrasies they have.
Conversion error.
You've got to use good maps, and you want to convert this from magnetic to grid
because the viewer's going to determine azimuths on a magnetic line of bearing.
And if you plot a magnetic bearing on a map, you need to convert it to grid.
So there are errors that can crop up in doing that.
Arithmetic.
Remote viewing is so right-brained when you get out of session,
and you've got to use a protractor, and you've got to do a front azimuth and a back azimuth and add or subtract 180.
People make stupid arithmetic errors.
We've got to check that.
Plotting errors.
Sometimes the protractor isn't straight.
Sometimes you don't get it aligned correctly on the map.
And finally, poor maps.
You can't just go to MapQuest and pull a map off the Internet, or you can't use a cheap map.
You've got to use navigational grade maps.
So there are a number of errors, and the analyst has to deal with all those.
Okay, does this work?
Let me get a drink of water.
We've been doing this for a while.
We have some examples, both operational and validation.
This was a validation target that I gave to one of my classes,
when they first were indoctrinated into this technique.
By the way, this protocol in our methodology is known as S7 Annex A,
so it's done in stage seven, and it's in annex.
So this was S7 Annex A, as I was teaching this to my students.
The target was the Oakland Bay Bridge, just after the earthquake that they had there.
Okay, we're able to know if they're on target,
and bring me back good data about the bridge,
and whether they can pinpoint the bridge in Northern California.
Here's a map of the Bay Area to orient you.
That's San Francisco, Oakland, Berkeley.
That's the Bay Bridge right there.
Now, the encrypted reference locations, the numbers that I gave the viewers,
are off the map.
There's San Jose, so the play area, the area that this encompasses,
is very much Northern California.
One of our viewers gave me this fix, this triangle right here.
His lines of bearing were this triangle,
and his Steiner Point was here, which was about a mile from the bridge,
and his elliptical area of probability included, his fix area included, the bridge.
If you were looking for a downed airplane or a missing ship in Northern California,
and we could give you data from remote viewers,
that could put you within a mile of that to begin your search,
how valuable would that be?
Here's another one.
Is that in focus, or are my eyes going bad?
This is Houston.
The target was a validation, I think that's as in focus as it gets.
The target was the Houston Astrodome.
This is the greater Houston area.
The reference locations were, again, off the map.
One of our viewers gave us this fix, and that yellow circle is the Astrodome.
So, again, she hit the Astrodome.
That's a pretty good fix right there.
If you look at this Steiner Point, I'm going to show you another viewer's data
where the Steiner Point was a few blocks away.
Now, the odds of getting identical Steiner Points is just astronomical.
I was talking to Dean Raiden about that, and he said it's just essentially zero
for this to be chance.
Here is the actual, this is my session on this.
This is my annex A data.
Here are the circles I drew.
These were the reference numbers.
All I was given was 981497025614.
So, I draw my directional ideogram.
Then I get my lines of bearing, my azimuths are 054 magnetic, 234 magnetic.
We plot it on the map.
This is the fix area, and within the fix area is the Houston Astrodome.
So, if you were looking for a missing child in the Houston area,
and I could give you an area to start within a few blocks of that,
how valuable would that be?
Another validation target.
This was Valtra in class, double blind.
The target was Charlie Porter.
He made a free ascent of El Capitan.
El Capitan is the cliff at Yosemite.
As I said, you can determine how good, very often the directional data will be
by how good the session data is.
Here's her S3, a very elegant S3 for a guy climbing a cliff.
She drew very steep land with a human there.
The area he was climbing was known as three cracks, one, two, three.
So that's a very elegant, simple S3 that demonstrates good target contact.
And she got a cut from this line of bearing,
or from this reference location, a line of bearing,
from this reference location, a line of bearing.
Now, see this pink right here?
It looks like an ink smudge.
That's the topographical lines of the cliff,
and they're so close together that it looks smudged.
She gave us a cut on the face of the cliff.
If you were looking for a missing child that was in all of Yosemite National Park,
and a remote viewer could say to you,
I bet you the kid is right there.
That would be pretty valuable, don't you think?
This is a target we worked in conjunction with the Honolulu Police Department.
I'm a television reporter, and I was doing this story,
and we have an association with a couple of investigators.
We've done some work for the homicide and missing persons.
So when I went out, and they were searching for Glen in Fonte,
he was distraught, had a gun, and had disappeared,
and they were very sure that he was going to kill himself.
Well, we worked the session.
I cued it up.
Valtra and others worked it blind.
In Valtra's session, she saw a man walking through the woods alone.
She turned in her data, and I looked at it, and I said,
I don't think so. He killed himself, and she said,
no, I saw this guy walking through the woods.
I said, no, he killed himself. The police know he's been gone three days.
He isn't just up there having a party in the woods.
He killed himself. They're trying to find his body.
She said, no, I saw him walking through the woods.
Well, her S7NXA, they were looking for him on the island of Oahu,
a pretty good-sized island, and where Valtra is,
I'm going to show you an area of the map above Pearl Harbor
and she gave us a fix right here.
And it turned out that the police told us
Mr. Infante walked out of the woods alone.
So she was right. He was alive, and he walked down this trail right here.
So she was within 400 meters of where he was.
If you had a missing hiker, a missing person,
and a remote viewer could put you within 400 meters of him to begin the search,
how valuable would that be?
Okay, another person they were searching for, Raphael Recendis Ramirez,
the FBI had him on the most wanted,
massive nationwide manhunt.
We worked it.
Valtra's data. Here's her annex A-lobs.
This is the actual page from her session.
So that was plotted with a protractor, put over the map,
and by the way, the encrypted reference locations were far away.
They included the continental United States.
So you have a huge area, and she gives us a fix in Houston.
And when I worked it, I gave another fix in Houston.
You need feedback in remote viewing.
We get the feedback. The data was correct.
Can this work off-planet?
Well, they've mapped Mars. They have latitude and longitude.
Longitude and latitude lines for Mars.
NASA lost something on Mars.
The Mars polar lander never phoned home.
So we worked it.
And this is one that we think we're going to get feedback on,
because it's our understanding that one government agency has found the lander,
and they're just trying to determine how to tell the other government agency, NASA,
where your missing lander is, and there's some politics involved.
So we've published this data for quite some time.
We're hoping for some feedback.
But here's Valtra's the yellow lines from 192 West on Mars to there.
She has another line of bearing and another line of bearing.
My data, I had a cut on the same place.
Now, the odds of this, if you just randomly take one known location
and go to another location, you have a 360 degree, one 360.
For a second one to randomly intersect is one over 360 to the second power.
For a third one is one in 360 to the third power.
For mine, that's a total of five, is one over 360 to the fifth power.
That's according to Dean Raiden.
I went over this with Dr. Raiden.
So if Valtra and I could go out into the, you know, play some craps and hit that kind of odds,
we'd make a certainly a lot more than we made on Kino.
We're waiting for feedback on that one.
Another target that we're waiting for feedback on is one of the great mysteries of the 20th century.
This airplane, Amelia Earhart's Lockheed Electro.
We've had this published on our website for quite some time.
Now, I want to show you an area that encompasses a huge chunk of the Pacific Ocean.
This is literally hundreds of thousands of miles.
The encrypted reference locations are off the map.
They're way far away.
But what we have here is Holland Island.
Here's the equator.
Baker Island, the Phoenix Islands.
And I want you to keep your eye on this area southwest of Holland and Baker Island
because these are all viewers working blind and independently who give us a fix here,
who give us a cut here southwest of Holland and Baker Island,
who give us a cut here off of Holland Island,
who give us another fix southwest,
who give us another fix here,
who give us another fix.
And these are coming from just way far away.
Who give us another one?
And it just goes on and on.
Viewer after viewers giving us the same cuts and the same fixes.
Now, we're hoping for feedback on this because we published this data over a year ago.
And now there's a team that's been searching for Amelia Earhart.
And there they have very sophisticated, expensive equipment.
They're putting a lot of money into this.
And it says here they've narrowed their search area to 600 square miles.
And it's in the area where our data indicates.
So we're hoping that they find this sometime soon and give us feedback.
If remote viewers have located and published ahead of time Amelia Earhart's airplane,
that would be significant.
So the question is not can you find something remote viewing with remote viewing?
The question is what do you want to find?
So questions.
We have a few minutes. Yeah.
Why do you use magnetic?
Because that's the way viewers perceive.
That's the way viewers intuitively give you a line of bearing on magnetic.
The viewers determine it on magnetic lines.
So you could use GPS coordinates now.
Oh yeah, we've done that.
As a matter of fact, the one that I showed you, which one?
A couple of these, they were GPS coordinates.
It wasn't Notch Top Mountain.
It would be like 19 point.
In Fonte was, it was actually 19.75.
Yeah.
But you know what?
It's easier, we think.
If you say something that's significant like the Eiffel Tower,
rather than just a longitude and longitude coordinate on Mars, that's all the same,
the viewer will be able to do it.
But it's better if you can give something like, okay, from the Golden Gate Bridge.
Where is it?
Yes, if you were doing an operational target, very often you would give subcues.
So you might have a team of viewers work it, turn in their data to the analyst,
and if they haven't given you the essential elements of information that might get re-targeteered,
sent back to them prior to feedback, they work it again.
So you could give them, okay, give us another S7 Annex A.
And if they give you one area like, you know, it's somewhere in the continental United States,
and they all zero in on Utah, then you might, you could re-targeteer that
and give you a baseline that's within Utah, and then go ahead and narrow it down.
I know it's in Salt Lake in the beginning, but can I just give them?
Sure, you can get a map of, yeah, Temple Square, 39th South and 45th East,
Skyline High School, you could use those.
And as long as you have a good map, yeah.
Any other questions?
Sometimes you'll give five reference locations to the viewer,
and the reason you might want to do that is the viewer might cheat you the first time.
They just go, eh.
And then the viewer settles down and does you two good ones.
And then on the fourth one, they run out of steam.
Well, you know, I've been doing this for three out of five.
It's where you get the fix, and one viewer can give you,
but it's much more significant if multiple viewers give you the same fixes.
You should really never rely on just one remote viewer as you're sold data.
We do consensus analysis.
Yeah, it could be done, but boy, it's sure, you know, remote viewers need a team.
One remote viewer working alone really isn't worth that much is what we found.
It's just much better if you have someone to do the target hearing.
You need someone to take the, you know, you want to work double blind,
so you need someone to take the information and give it to a target hear,
cue it out so that you can insulate the viewers and then have several viewers working.
You want an analyst that's blind.
The analyst should not know what the target is.
When we do analysis, the analyst is also double blind to the target.
Well, psychic in remote viewing is a little different.
Remote viewing is much more structured, yeah.
See, if I'm here in Las Vegas today, a map that shows you north, that's not magnetic north.
No, that's true north. That's what I asked.
That's true north. Okay, I'm sorry.
Okay.
Yeah, so you've got to look at the legend on the map.
There are several different types.
The financial, well, the financial industry, I can't speak to that
because there are other organizations here that teach for money,
but we're a non-profit organization and we, none of, I've never made any money for viewing
or for teaching, neither has Glenn.
We charge just enough to keep a classroom and buy pencils and papers and protractors.
Oh, can you make money doing this?
If you could accurately do this and find treasure, you could make,
there's some, we're hoping to, do I know of that?
I heard Prudence Calabresi found some buried treasure once.
She's not here, but I'll tell you who else.
I don't think this is secret, but there's some former remote viewers that have this skill
that get paid a lot of money by oil companies, telling oil companies where to drill.
They're working full time.
This is designed for finding tangible things, things that exist in a location.
Yeah.
Paul?
No.
One thing you need to do to calibrate your viewers is to do what we call check bearings.
You might have a viewer sit down and we might have to give them 50.
You know, Lynn talked about keeping a file of your viewers.
If you're using this, you've really got to do this.
You've got to do a lot of validation targets, targets where you have an accurate map
and you can plot the viewers' lines of bearing and determine what they, what they tend to do.
We know we have one viewer, Jim Carlson, who did the Egypt sessions.
He gives a true bearing each time.
He doesn't have to be corrected.
You know, I haven't tracked enough of our viewers.
I think most of their inclinations are pretty consistent.
Yeah.
If you can give a viewer, a viewer consistently give you a line of bearing this within a few degrees,
oh, you're golden.
The analysts can, you, I mean, that's, that's, if you try to get it with three,
if you get a fix in there within a few degrees, that's going to be very valuable data,
even if it's awful a little bit.
Like if you looked at the, a couple of these examples, some of them were awful a little bit,
but still, when you triangulate it and fix your Steiner point, I don't concern myself with that too much.
I'm a viewer.
I'm not so much the analyst of this, Glenn, analyzes that.
Oh, how many people?
Yeah.
But operationally, when we break into groups, we're designed on a model that, for example,
Valter and I, with two other viewers are MJ001, and that's five viewers.
So within the guild, we have a target committee chairman, and we have other groups.
So within one working group, it's four viewers.
So someone gives us a target to work.
The target committee chair gets that so that the four viewers are insulated,
and that gives that to a target here.
When the target information is published to the four viewers, you have a mission manager,
a viewer, a monitor, and an analyst.
That's four.
Yeah.
The target here is someone outside of that group, so that it can be double-blind.
Yeah.
But four is the minimum number you need.
You need groups to remote view.
That's the reason Glenn is teaching us for free is because here he got out of the military,
and he's a remote viewer.
What good is he alone?
So he wanted to replicate himself so that he could have some people to do all these tasks
so we can accomplish something.
Well, you know what?
I was on coast-to-coast radio, and I thought, I went to the general manager, and I said,
you know I'm involved in human cognition, and he said, oh, you mean that remote viewing he'd heard?
I said, yeah.
I said, there's this radio show that wants me to do a little interview coast-to-coast,
and is it okay?
He said, oh, yeah, that's okay.
He said, I don't believe any of that, but that's okay.
So some of them, if they take the time to look at it, they accept it,
but most of them just don't understand.
We have a long way to go.
We need to educate the public about this.
This is real.
I mean, this works.
This is not...
Glenn is always telling us this isn't magic.
This isn't woo-woo psychic stuff.
This is a scientific basis to this.
This is a natural communication skill.
All we're doing is natural communication.
Yeah.
Oh, it depends.
When I showed you the fix on the Houston area, that was hundreds of thousands of miles.
So you could get within a few miles, and that would be a big hit.
When you're doing El Capitan, we're within a few yards.
A few yards.
A few yards.
She was within yards of the actual target, the guy that was missing on Oahu.
When I showed you the map with the above IAEA, I should have gone back to that,
but those grid marks were, what, a thousand meters?
A thousand meters.
So it depends on the size of the map.
You know, you learn to remote view, and you bring back data about a target,
and that's... you're amazed.
And then after you've done that for quite some time,
then when you apply this, and you... it's just a line, right?
And then you put it on a map, and you see that it triangulates on the location.
It's like, wow.
That would be a future target.
And our model is that the future, if you can do about 90 days out,
so you should be able to... the future is real slippery,
as we've seen in remote viewing, the remote viewing community.
We have one prediction published on our website of the space junk falling to Earth,
and they got it within about a couple miles.
And in the Hawaiian Islands, they got it right off of Barber's Point, and that's where it hit.
And that was a future target, and it was notarized prior to the event.
So you can do it in the future, but the future's tough.
All right, thank you very much.
This is our website.
If...
We're all available via email if you have any questions.
You can go to our website, and there's Valtry at HRVG, I'm Dick at HRVG.
We love to talk about remote viewing, and we're not trying to make any money off of it.
So we love to talk about it.
There's some people here that met us over the internet and are coming to Hawaii,
and we'll be here at the conference too.
Thanks a lot.
