I am Gabrielle Penningale.
I did serve for about three and a half or so years with the Stargate program.
My background was I have an undergraduate degree in psychology.
I then went into the military, served in military intelligence.
I worked in several unconventional units doing sort of strategic planning and analysis.
I bumped into the program while I was doing that and thought, I want to do this.
So when they had a slot open, I left the service and joined the program as a civilian.
While at the Stargate program, I was a remote viewer.
I also was an operations officer and also was a training officer.
So I kind of wore three hats.
I remote-viewed the whole time I was there, but in between I also did a lot of training,
trained quite a few people, and also ran a number of operations.
After leaving the unit, I got my MBA from Morton, worked as a management consultant, and also
stayed in the reserves the whole time.
And so, you know, Paul and I kept saying, come join us, come join us in the real world.
And I kept hoping, you know, since I had my clientele, maybe the government will do this
again.
I'll just sit back and wait, like a real dreamer.
And so after 10 years, I've given up and I've come out of the closet.
So this is my first kind of exposure to the RV community in the civilian world, aside
from working as a trainer with Paul's company.
But so be gentle with me, okay?
I don't know all the politics, and I don't want to know all the politics, but so anyway,
aside from that, what I'm going to do today, Paul, to make sure I truly stepped out of
the closet, invited me to please talk to the audience, particularly to the people who don't
have a background in remote viewing.
And he said, I want you to set the stage.
I want you to set the stage and tell people what we mean by remote viewing, and give them
a little history, and then tell them some more, and then let them try it.
And I said, how much time do I have, Paul?
Do I have the whole conference?
And he said, 90 minutes.
I said, okay, so this is what we're going to do.
I'm going to start with the history, and it's going to be fast.
And as you know, history and reality is very murky, and lots of things happen at the same
time.
And history in books is very linear, okay?
Now, to be able to do it fast, I'm going to make it linear.
So if I twist something just a little bit, a date, who did it, or that, forgive me, it's
so that it makes sense to people who are new to it.
Then after that, I'm going to tell you what, give you some definitions of remote viewing
and some examples, and tell you what we mean by it, and tell you, show you the process
a little bit.
And then I'm going to show you some sample sessions.
I'm going to show some from some students, and then I'm also going to show an example
of a commercial application of remote viewing.
And then after that, I'm going to give you all a chance to try it.
I've selected some targets, and then I'm going to have someone who's never done any remote
viewing pick one of the five targets I picked, and then you all are going to have a few minutes,
and I'll give you a procedure for doing that, and then we'll give you your feedback.
So this is sort of a test run.
This gives you a chance to try it before you do the real experiment tomorrow.
By the way, any artwork you see in the background, except for the picture where I have a picture
of Ingo Swann, that's Ingo, but all this artwork is Paul's.
He, I don't know how many of you know that, but he is quite an accomplished artist, and
he tends to do things kind of like this, and pretty neat.
Again, the topic here is remote viewing, and I like the expression martial art of the mind,
because what we're talking about isn't something spontaneous, it's something deliberate, it's
something practiced, it's something that if you use discipline and do it repeatedly you
get better.
There's also brings in the concept that some people are pick it up very quickly and are
very good at it, they become black belts, and other people it's a bit of a chore.
I don't think I ever got passed a white belt in karate, and there's a reason for that.
And this same thing is true with remote viewing.
Anybody can learn it, and there's going to be some people who are more talented than
the others, but the more you practice it and the more you apply a strict discipline to
what you do and do everything precisely, the better you get.
And that's me, that's my company, and I wanted to start again.
The one thing we want to make clear is this is IRVA, the International Remote Viewing
Association.
We're not here to talk about other things, we're not here to talk about channeling, mysticism,
out of body, and any other new age topic you want to talk about, we're here strictly to
talk about remote viewing.
It's pretty narrow, but it's just as exciting.
And here, just to set the stage, I want to start with a definition of remote viewing.
This is from the DIA Remote Viewing Instructors Manual, and it says, the acquisition, remote
viewing is the acquisition and description by mental means of information blocked from
ordinary perception by distance, shielding, or time.
And again, that means describing something when you're not physically co-located with
it.
That's it, okay?
And remote viewing, in the way me mean it, is something that has structured protocols.
It's not just a spontaneous action.
It's reproducible, it's trainable, and it includes processes for dealing with what we
call mental noise.
Now, I'm going to be talking in depth later about mental noise, but really what that is
is just your imagination or your analytic response.
In real life, when we see something, like we see a cat peering around a door, we just
see part of it, we say, oh, that's a cat.
We have a little bit of information, we complete the picture using our analytical self.
In remote viewing, we get the information, and our mind says, oh, it makes conclusions
about it.
They get a little bit of fur, they might get a hint of green, they hear something that
sounds like a meow, and we say, oh, it's a cat.
And that is what contaminates remote viewing, it's just the same thing that we do in real
life.
But in remote viewing, you don't have enough information, so imagination wreaks havoc.
It might actually be a lion, it could be a dog, but with those few little pieces of information,
your mind instantly starts to form a picture.
And so in controlled remote viewing, you have to have processes which teach the viewer to
look for what that happens and deal with it.
And that's what makes this different from natural, being naturally psychic.
This is what makes it trainable and reproducible.
It's the ability to handle mental noise, and I'll talk about that more.
But first, I'll start with a history.
Okay.
We go back to 1960s, and in the 1960s, at least everywhere in the world, people were
starting to get interested in the human potential.
Physically, we're reaching for the stars, and science had reached all these new reaches,
and so human potential was the next frontier, and everybody was interested in it.
In the US, that was really more of a pop culture thing, particularly when it dealt with ESP.
On a scientific front, there was such skepticism around that type of thing, that most experiments
dealt with proving it, proving that psychic processes exist.
Meanwhile in the Soviet Union, they took it for granted that it existed simply because
of their culture.
Okay.
So they started already, it exists.
What can we do with it?
And so they had very intense and rigorous programs to find these natural psychics and
put them to use.
What are the military applications?
What can these people do?
So they weren't interested in so much in training or figuring out how to get everybody to do
what they just were saying, we have these people, what can we do with them?
And our intelligence services saw that, and they got to get a little concerned because
they saw we really weren't doing anything.
But that's kind of what's happening in the government.
Meanwhile, in a little town called Menino Park, there was a think tank called Stanford
Research Institute, SRI, and there was a laser physicist there, Hal Puttoff, who had finished
a laser project and was thinking, you know, I really would like to learn more, find out
more about, you know, these extra sensory processes, what can we do with it?
What is it?
I want to do some experiments on that.
And if you work for a think tank, anybody who works for any kind of consulting firm
knows that if you want to do something, you have to find your own money for it.
They don't just give you money, you have to go out and find money.
So he went out and he got an initial grant from Frank Church of Churches Fried Chicken
to look at that.
And he also started just circulating ideas, proposals around.
He circulated in the government and with other organizations who were doing psychical research,
and that was happening.
Meanwhile, again, remember, I told you real world, real world history is not linear.
In New York, an artist, writer, and naturally psychic person named Ingo Swan, was realizing
a little bit about his abilities and was offering himself up to a couple of different studies
as a subject.
He worked with City College in New York and he worked with the American Institute for
Psychical Research, and he bumped into the proposal, and so he contacted Hal Putoff and
sort of the rest is history, but they went on to do some studies.
He and Hal Putoff invited Ingo Swan out to SRI, and his initial interest was in PK, psychokinesis,
creating movement of matter with using just mental energy.
And so he had this, another scientist had this device that was designed to measure the
magnetic field set off by quarks.
Now what quarks are are little tiny itty bitty bitty bits of an atom, and they're very small.
And so you can imagine the magnetic field they set off is very small.
And so you can imagine that any other magnetic field anywhere else in the world would be
larger than that small little itty bitty magnetic field set off by the quark.
So this device designed to measure that is buried in concrete, and around the device
there are several, several layers of shielding.
It's designed so that the only thing that's going to touch it is that quarks, little magnetic
energy.
And then back up on ground, there's a little meter, a chart that comes out, just like a
EKG or something, where it measures.
And so he came, he got Ingo Swan there, he said, I want you to affect that meter.
I want you to make it move.
And Ingo looked at him and said, right.
And so he thought, well, how can I go about doing that?
And he thought, I don't even know what it looks like or how it works.
So he got out a piece of paper and he started to sketch.
He started to remote view the device, okay, to get an idea for what is it?
What is it that I'm supposed to make move?
Well while he was doing that, the little meter started moving, okay?
And everybody said, oh.
And when he stopped, the meter stopped.
And so Hal Putoff took that little experiment and he attached it to some of his funding
requests.
And it just happened to go across the desk of somebody in the CIA.
And it also just so happened that Hal Putoff happened to have a security clearance his
left from when he had been in the service.
So everything came together perfectly.
The CIA, who was very concerned about what the Russians were doing and wanting us to
get involved, all of a sudden had this perfect package.
They had a scientist, a very legitimate scientist, one who had great credentials who, you know,
who wasn't already contaminated a lot by the world of ESP, willing to do research with
good subjects and so they gave him money.
And that started the program fully.
So Hal Putoff then had Russell Targ join his effort and a number of other people.
And the name Scanate wasn't its initial name, but it was a name I think he also came up
with for describing the process of remote viewing, that you're sending out a scanner.
And that's where that name came from.
And actually as I'm going through this history, most of the people are here.
Hal Putoff is here, it's going to be here, Russell Targ's here.
Later on you'll see Lynn Buchanan, Mel Riley, Paul Smith is here.
All the players are here at Skip Out Water, whom you already met here.
This person's not here, so I included a picture of him.
This is Ingos Juan.
I was taken a number of years ago.
He's standing in front of one of his pieces of artwork.
So we had, anyway, so we had SRI doing work.
And they did a lot of things.
They gave up PK pretty quickly because they felt it was very hard to study and they weren't
getting that far.
Then they started to look at other types of psychical processes and they came across studying
remote viewing.
And they learned a lot about it over the years.
They learned that you can't shield from it.
It's not, it has no kind of radiation.
They learned that.
They learned, they learned that you can just give coordinates and a person can tell you
about it.
And then they learned that you don't even have to use the real geographic coordinates.
You can just make up a number.
And if you have an idea of where you want the person to go, they'll go there and get
information.
So they learned lots of neat things over the years.
And again, like I said, this story has lots of threats.
Meanwhile, while the CIA was doing this, the Army had a group in Fort Meade that looked
at, it was called Operational Security Organization, OPSEC.
That means they're interested in protecting our secrets.
And they had the systems exploitation team that went out and tried to pretend they were
the enemy spying on us.
And to help units get their act together and be better about their own security.
So this organization was going out and getting their satellites to take pictures or they
would go and see if they can talk to people in the unit and get them to tell something
about it.
They would pretend to be like the enemy trying to infiltrate the organization.
And one of the people there, then Lieutenant Skip Atwater, who came up here briefly, had
read MindReach's book about the SRI work and had some exposure and found some files that
dealt with the work being done by SRI.
So he went to his commanders and said, we should be doing this.
The Russians are doing this.
We should be seeing if it really does work.
And so they decided to develop a very inexpensive program to see if they could, quote, psychically
spy on our own, you know, on our own people, I mean, not on our own units.
And so they went to SRI and got some protocols and started work.
And some of the original people from that unit, Mel Riley's here, a couple other people,
they started working.
And at that time, there was still not yet a set method to train remote viewing.
And so they would just say, OK, I'm thinking of it.
There's a target in this envelope.
Tell me what you think about it.
And they would try different techniques, like maybe being in a meditative state or just
writing things down.
And it worked.
They had fairly good results.
And that program was called Gondola Wish.
Now as these units quickly became obvious, there was a lot of issues with, one, it was
working.
But two, they were doing it against US peoples, and that's a no-no.
You're not supposed to do strange things with your own people.
So they had a lot of human use issues.
And so they started to say, well, maybe we should be using it to spy on the enemy instead.
That would solve the problem of involving American citizens in something they don't know
they're involved in.
And they also started to develop procedures for having permission to do this type of thing.
Meanwhile, so SRI was doing research.
You had the Army starting to kind of think of a way to apply it.
They weren't that concerned about the research angle.
And there was also an Air Force unit who was dabbling in it.
So then DIA got involved and started to pull together these pieces.
And that program then was renamed Girl Frames.
It was the same program, and they were starting to develop, you know, starting to realize
that this actually works.
They would give an intelligence question to the unit, and the unit would describe things
like what does a particular weapon system looks like, or what's in this room, in this
building.
We've always wondered what's in this building.
And everything moved along.
Meanwhile, back at SRI, Ingo Swan was doing a lot of work thinking on how do I do what
I do?
And how can I make it better?
How can I deal with mental noise in a structured way?
And he started to think about it, and he came up with his own little protocol.
And it turned out it was teachable.
So then DIA passed the program totally back to the Army because they decided it's politically
not wise to dabbling these things.
So Army had the program all by themselves, and they sent people, a group of people, Paul
Smith was one of them, to go to, and Ed Dames was one, and Bill Ray was one, and then there
was one more person, Charlene, who's not here.
They went and were taught by Ingo how to remote view using his new methodology.
And it was very successful, these people, some of whom had very little background in
anything psychic, were able to actually report and describe things that were not in their
physical proximity.
And not only that, they saw they improved over time, and it was fairly easy to train
it.
Then the Army, of course, at this time, the Army had been dabbling in a number of things
like this.
Aside from doing the remote viewing, they were also doing a lot of other kind of esoteric
things like neuro-linguistic programming, and hemi-sync, and a number of things.
And when the new commander of Army Intelligence came in, he was a skeptic, and he did not
want this in his unit.
So fortunately, DIA stepped forward and took the unit back, so came part of what was known
as Sunstreak at DIA, and that's when I joined the unit.
And the unit continued to operate, doing operations for on-intelligence problems given
to them by various organizations, the CIA, Army, Air Force, DIA, whoever had a question
who had kind of bumped into the program would submit their request, and the unit would gain
information for them.
At the same time, SRI still was working for DIA doing research in these processes.
Later again, they changed name again to Stargate.
Stargate's kind of the no name for all this stuff, because that was when the program was
terminated and it was announced publicly.
It was under the name of Stargate.
The name change had just occurred simply because they changed some of the security classifications.
So whenever you do that, you have to change name, which they did.
When DIA, again, people who were involved in this program usually became believers, but
there were always some skeptics around, and there were always people who didn't want it
on their turf, whether they believed or not.
And there's a reason for that, because the American public, really, especially at this
time, was not going to be really happy to know that money was spent on this kind of thing.
And so this program kept continuing to be shuttled around, because while people wanted
it, they liked the information they got out of it, it was still somewhat of a hot potato.
So in the early 90s, DIA kind of shuttled it back to CIA, who really didn't want it.
And the reason they did it at that point was DIA's mission had changed, and the whole intelligence
community was reorienting, because DIA was starting to do things CIA was doing, and CIA
was starting to do things DIA was doing.
Okay, one's the Defense Intelligence Agency, the other's the Central Intelligence Agency.
And so they were saying, we need a clear line.
And what the program was doing was very strategic.
So they said, it should be CIA, because it's not really tactical.
You know, it's more usable by everybody, not just a service.
So they wanted to push it back to CIA, CIA didn't really want it that much.
So they said, we're going to commission a study to see if what this unit has been doing
for the last 15 years has really been worth it, and if there's some validity to it.
Well, so they got a small consulting firm, an American Institute of Research, to look
at it.
But there was a problem.
A lot of the projects the unit worked on, they couldn't get clearance to let them even
look at it.
So with a very limited set of files, they gave it to this consulting organization, which
hired both a skeptic and a pro-psychic person to look at the data.
And of course, the pro-psychic person came up with, yes, it was statistically valid.
They did prove that it does work and it's useful.
And the person who was more of a skeptic came and said, no, they did not prove that it really
was applicable and worthy.
And since the CIA wanted the latter answer, that's what it went with.
So the program was quilled and the study was published and it was announced to the American
public.
They had done this work, but not to worry, it was not being done anymore.
Okay, so that left a void and it left a void and it left something very useful.
And so, of course, a number of people very wisely started to set up companies to further
explore this and to do and to build on what had originally been started in these units
and to make it applicable to one, to train others to do it.
It is a human skill.
Everybody should know.
And it really, the goal, I think, of everybody who ever works in any of the companies I know
is they want to train as many people as they can.
They think this is something everybody should know how to do, because they can do it.
In addition, they also want to find out applications for how do we make this useful to people who
aren't spying, you know, what are the practical applications for companies, for individuals,
for humanitarian organizations, and that's kind of where we are now.
And that's what kind of error is about, is supporting these efforts to get more people
remote viewing.
So that's sort of the history.
And now, I'm going to do sort of a remote viewing 101.
Again, I want to tell you, the best way to understand what something is is usually to
know what it is not.
In this case, it's not video in the head.
And I'm guilty.
I know when I talk about, when I've remote-viewed something, a person will swear I was there
and walking around based on my description, because it sounds like it.
And it's really not.
It's not like you just are taking, like you're in this other site, you know, observing is
you would be if you were standing there.
When you remote-view, you get little packets of information, maybe four or five concepts
like red, blue, green, or if it's more higher-level concepts, you know, religious or educational.
And it comes in in bits and pieces, so it's not video in the head.
Now, as you collect more information, it does start to fit together, and the puzzle's completed.
So you do get a very, you can get a lot of information about the site, but it's not as
if you were there.
It is very hard to remote-view things that are man-made constructs like symbols and numbers
because it is not video in the head.
The other thing is not, it's not astral projection.
You know, both your bodies stay where they're at.
It's also not channeling, and it's also not out of the body experience, OBE.
So what it is, again, it's this procedure for gaining information, physical descriptors,
okay, we're using a set of structure protocols, and again, anybody can do it.
It's reproducible, it's trainable, and it's got specific ways of dealing with mental noise.
One thing to realize that for remote-viewing in this aspect, there's certain criteria that
have to be careful to be there for you to consider that this was something done by remote-viewing
and not, you know, not contaminated by analysis or something.
The viewer must be blind.
The viewer, because of the effect of the imagination, the viewer can't know what they're working,
okay?
It's best if the monitors, if they're using a monitor or somebody in the room with them
who's, you know, asking them questions or whatever, it's best that the monitor not know
either so that they don't lead them on.
The queuing or targeting must be non-suggestive, and that's the idea of using, like, just a
number to represent the target.
Like I say, I want you to describe the Eiffel Tower to me, I'm not going to say describe
the Eiffel Tower to me.
I mean, how are you going to be able to remote-view knowing that?
I'll say describe site 46234, and then you'll tell me, oh, it's metallic, it's big, and
you'll start to describe it.
But if I tell you to describe the Eiffel Tower, I can't trust that you're not just describing
the one that's in your imagination.
For remote-viewing to work, the viewer has to ultimately get feedback, and that's just
the idea of something being trainable.
You can't learn something if you don't know how you've done.
So feedback is how that's done.
At some point, the viewer needs to know, what did I view and was I correct?
There must be a known truth or a ground truth.
You can remote-view anything.
You can remote-view the contents of a book.
You can remote-view an idea.
And so if the target doesn't really exist, you're trained to give an answer.
So you'll go to the next thing available.
If there is not really, say I believe that a company is going to, has plans to build
a facility in the future, and I ask you to remote-view it, and something happened and
it wasn't built because the company went bankrupt, there's no telling what you'll come back.
You're not going to come back and say there's no facility, okay?
You'll probably remote-view and say, either give the ideas for the initial plan, or you
might report there's an empty area, or whatever's currently in the area, or you might report
that, who knows what else, something that's nearby that's of interest to you.
So if there's no answer, there's no telling what you get.
So you have to make sure, if you use remote-viewing, that you know what the viewer was working
on exists.
If you want to be able to truly believe your results, that's not to say that for fun it's
fun to work against something where ground-tooth isn't known, but you have to realize there's
no way to know whether or not you're actually viewing the site, or somebody's ideas about
the site, or even a novel about the site.
There's no way to tell if they're actually going to that physical locality, because there's
no mechanism for that in the remote-viewing protocol, okay?
Similarly, when you get remote-viewing, you get little bits and pieces of information.
You don't get it all.
It's not the video in the head.
So if you're trying to answer a question, it's best if you have what we call other ints.
That's other forms of intelligence.
If you're trying to find a person, you can't just rely on remote-viewing.
You have to have an idea where was that person might be?
What might have happened?
To be able to look at the results you get, the results are not going to be complete.
They're going to be bits and pieces, just parts of a puzzle.
If you don't have any other pieces of the puzzle, the remote-viewing is not going to
be that useful to you.
So you really, it works best if it's paired with other forms of information.
The most important component of remote-viewing, and we, as we talk about it, the formal structured
remote-viewing, is that having a way to deal with mental noise.
Again, natural psychics can be very good.
It's usually they're very good, and then they're very bad.
And the reason is mental noise.
Their imaginations kick in, and there's several types of mental noise.
The first is analytical overlay, and some of you may know these as stray cats.
It's what your mind does to finish the picture.
You have bits and pieces of information, and your mind says, aha, it's this, aha, it's
that.
And again, like with my example with the cat, you don't have enough information to truly
make those conclusions, but your mind has been trained to make conclusions.
And so that process of making conclusions based on limited information is called analytical
overlay, and that's one of the things that we find we can train viewers to recognize
and deal with.
Another type of mental noise is environmental overlay.
Say I'm working in a room on a project, and there's a woodpecker out in the yard, and
I hear a tap, tap, tap in a report, well, there's a tap, tap, tap at the site.
Okay, so that's the environment kind of encroaching in on your process, and you have to be careful
to realize, did I hear that for real, or did I hear it, you know, in my mind?
In clemencies, if the viewer has worries, if the viewer is physically distracted, that
will affect, can affect your sight if you're not aware of it.
If you had a very bad day, you're sad, you're just droopy, and you've been asked to remote
view a carnival, you will probably, if you don't realize that you're doing this and haven't
been trained to deal with it, you'll probably report on a very horrific place, you know,
one that is depressing and gaudy, and it's all based on your own emotional response.
These are called in clemencies, so you have, one of the things that we train is to teach
you to deal with these things and not them allow them to affect your viewing, these type
of mental noise.
And the last type of mental noise is when you have more than one viewer working on something.
Sometimes if there is such a great importance attached to it, or if it's something that's
very hard to view, sometimes the viewers will view what each other is viewing, as opposed
to doing their own independent work, okay?
And that's called telepathic overlay, or in the case, again, if it's something where
the target is not exactly what it's supposed to be, the viewer will go to the next strongest
psychic signal, and they might go to the person who's tested intent, the monitor's intent.
If the monitor believes that something's at the site and it's not really there, and the
monitor really wants to believe it's there, sometimes the viewer won't go to the site,
they'll go to what the monitor wants just to please them.
That's called telepathic overlay.
Types of remote viewing.
There's many different ways to do this, and one type is called outbounder or beacon.
That's where a person actually goes to a site, and then the remote viewer reports where that
person is and what they're doing, okay?
And the idea sometimes of that is that there might be an increased, you know, psychic energy
attached with a person doing that, or it's just one way of doing it.
That's called outbounder or beacon.
Another is called extended remote viewing, and that's the idea of putting yourself in
a very meditative state lying down and then describing, say, getting coordinates and then
just describing what you see.
That's called extended remote viewing.
Extended remote viewing is a technique that's using remote viewing to answer questions, like
say you want to know whether stock A is going to go up tomorrow or down.
That's something we don't like to know, I bet.
Well, you can't remote view that, okay?
It's numbers, first of all, and it's concepts, and really what's up and down when you think
about it?
You know, up and down for the head of the company is a little bit different than what
up and down means to you and me, so it's very hard to remote view.
So instead, you don't ask the remote viewer to view that.
You don't even tell them that's what you're interested in.
What you say is that I'm going to hand you a picture tomorrow night after the stock market
closes.
I want you to remote view that, and you have two different pictures, one for if it goes
up and one for if it goes down, and that's called associative remote viewing.
The remote viewer is not actually remote viewing the question in hand.
They're remote viewing something that's designed to stand for the question.
That's an associative remote viewing.
Last we have what I teach, which is controlled remote viewing.
This is a step-by-step process where you're not in a transfer or anything, where you're
sitting up using pen and paper to systematically describe a site, and the process kind of
goes like this.
We have, when you're remote viewing, the information comes in in bits and pieces, and it comes
in at first, you get a little, and then you get more.
So you start, you have sort of a general feel for the site.
Oh, it seems like there's land, or it's mainly water, it's mainly structure.
That's the major gestalt.
That's kind of your first impression of the site.
Then little bits of information will start to trickle in, and we train it in this order
so that the viewer can control mental noise.
By doing this step-by-step process, and by starting with the very simple, and then building
up to the complex, the viewer can control their imaginations better, and keep track
of that process.
So then we start with very simple sensory data.
We do taste, and smells, colors, textures, and sounds, so that the viewer might say,
if it's the Eiffel Tower, first they'll say it's a structure.
It's a structure.
Oh, there's green, and brown, and I see white, and it's metallic, and it's crusty, and I
hear people sounds, I hear traffic, and it smells like gas, it smells like exhaust.
And so they get this type of information, and then we have a move on to dimensional
concepts.
So they've had this initial sort of sensory exposure to the site.
And what we found with that sensory data is the imagination tends to leave it alone.
It's used to having that type of information in the brain, and just letting it be.
But then you start to get dimensional information, and you say, oh, it's high, it's wide, it's
got holes, and so you start to describe the Eiffel Tower dimensionally.
And that's where the imagination really starts to kick in, and that's where we start to train
the viewer to realize that's when they're going to say, oh, it's a bridge, or oh, it's
a girder, or oh, it's a bungee jumping tower.
And the viewer's taught to how to separate their response from the true data.
Next, we move into more complex data, and that's qualitative and intangible data, and
then something like the idea of it being a monument, or a tourist attraction, or that
it's old, and some of its history will start to come through.
And that's where more in-depth information comes in.
Now, when they're remote viewing, a lot of times the viewer will say something very complicated,
and you think, where did that come from?
And so then there's a procedure called Stage 5, where you kind of go offline, you're no
longer accessing the target, and you look at what you've already had and try to figure
out, well, what made me say something?
If I said the word museum, and you think, well, what made me say museum?
And then in Stage 5, you'd break it out and say, well, I saw exhibit case, and I saw a
couple things that relate to a museum.
That's called Stage 5, and it's breaking down the information you've already gotten into
what caused that information to be said.
And lastly, you can do what's called Stage 6, and that's looking at the site in detail.
It's either in a three-dimensional mode, describing in great detail the physicality of the site,
like making a clay model, or doing a floor plan, a room by room, it's where you start
to really put together all the information you're getting, and have enough contact that
you really can say, this is in front, this is in back, this is to the left, this is to
the right, on a three-dimensional way, but it also is a point in time where you have
enough site contact where you can move in time and say, okay, what happened at the site
a year ago, or in the future, or 100 years ago, where you can move in time?
This is called Stage 6, and it's when you have enough site contact that you can do sort
of a four-dimensional assessment of the site and get more detailed information.
So those are the six steps we teach, obviously you don't have to remote view that way, but
it's a way that we found, if you follow the protocols, that have you go in this order
from very simple physical information to complex ideas, you can better control your mental
noise and keep working without trying to guess what the site is.
Okay, so why learn to remote view, and this is our advertising pitch, and all the companies
here are equally good, so I'll say that, but anyway, here's a quote by Dwayne Elgin, he
was one of the SRI subjects, and I just love this, it says, once you discover that space
doesn't matter, or that time can be traveled through at will, so that time doesn't matter,
and that matter can be moved by consciousness, so that matter doesn't matter, well, you can't
go home again.
And for me, that's the biggest reason to study remote viewing, it was certainly a major
change in my way of viewing life, since I started remote viewing, the before and after,
I'm still the same old mundane, boring person I was, and that hasn't changed, but there's
this kind of just spark, saying, yes, you know, I can do this, this is neat, I can trans,
I can move in time, it's, I guess it's the way I capture this moment is the first time
I give usually a student something like the lunar lander, it's their first time off, quote,
off planet, and they finish that session and they find out what the target was, and they
might have described seeing this blue ball up in the sky or something like that, that
it's that reaction to, I did this, that you can't go home again, and it's a very powerful
thing, that's one of the reasons.
The next reason gets into the whole martial arts of the mind, it's a discipline, and why
do people study karate, yes, there's a self-defense element, but I'm sorry, most of us will never
have to use karate for self-defense, so why study it, and why study it so intensely, obvious
if you know one or two really good moves and target places on your, on your aggressor,
you know enough about self-defense, so why spend hours and hours studying karate, well
it's the same thing with remote viewing, because it is a discipline, and you do get better,
and you do grow, you know, you do grow in this technique, and you can, and it starts,
you see other ways to apply it to your life, if you have hobbies, your remote view, maybe
some of the things that have to do with your hobbies, or you just become better able at
finding parking spots or whatever, but it's that idea of it being a discipline and something
to work on to improve yourself, and it is very difficult, and it is a natural high, when
you do get a site right, and you describe it as very exhilarating, so again, it's a
human skill, you know, and I think everybody should learn a little bit about it, it's,
it's interesting, it's a focused discipline, the process feels good, it feels good to
remote view, and people have found many personal applications for it, again, people are historians,
you know, remote view historical events, and it may, it's interesting to them, other people
do the humanitarian applications, perhaps, you know, trying to get information for missing
people or that type of thing, and of course there's, you know, there's professional applications,
there are companies, there are many questions that we could answer for companies, and we
do, things like, is my patent being infringed upon, and so you remote view where that's
being used, and see if it's being used the same way the company did it, okay, that's
just one of many possible, you know, professional applications. Do you have any questions on
what remote viewing is, how I've described it, or the history, or anything I've covered
to this point? Yes, an outbounder, you can use really any type, any form of remote viewing,
you know, the controlled where you write on a paper, or the one where you kind of lie
down in a sort of altered state, and what you're describing, instead of describing the
site, you're describing where a person's going, and they won't decide until they're
out there, like they'll go off in their car, and then they'll open an envelope telling
them where to go, and it's one way of also making sure that, you know, nobody knows what
you're working, and the person goes to that site, and they maybe walk around for a few
minutes, and then come back, and the remote viewer is supposed to report where that person
is and what they're doing, and there's always been a question, does it help that a person,
you know, is a person, you know, sort of sending additional information that, you know, hasn't
been able to be confirmed, but it sometimes seems to have an effect, and then extended
remote viewing is just when you're sort of in, you get into a meditative state and report.
Yes, the way it evolved was, it started out, I guess it was, right, how do you get a remote
viewer to go to a particular spot without telling them where to go?
You know, because if I tell you I want you to go to the Eiffel Tower, you won't be able
to work, too much imagination.
So what they started with first was, well, why don't we give them the geographic coordinates?
And so they'd say, you know, go to 36 degrees north and 42 degrees east or whatever, and
they use that and they found out it worked very effectively.
But then, of course, the skeptics say, well, these guys have all these maps memorized, okay?
And so obviously they know that at, you know, 36 degrees, 42 minutes, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, there's the Eiffel Tower.
And so they thought, well, you know, they'll kill the program if people go there.
So then they thought, well, what if we just write down a number, a set of numbers and
say we want that to represent the Eiffel Tower?
And they did.
They would just randomly pick eight digits or ten digits and say that's the target.
And they would write somewhere down.
They'd say the intent.
They'd say this equals Eiffel Tower.
And so they just tell those invented numbers, and this is the hardest thing to believe,
I know, to the viewer and they go there.
They, you know, if they can psychically remove, you know, view the site and tell you what's
there, they can certainly figure out what you want, you know, it's kind of a simple
way of looking at it.
And the way they do that is just using this set of numbers.
Other questions?
Yes.
How does the remote viewer do what they're doing?
And there's a number of theories of, you know, what's going on physically that they
would know that.
You know, how are they connecting?
How do they, why does intent matter?
And that's a several-hour conversation right there.
And again, it's not that confirmable, so you'll see there's a number of different opinions
about, and, you know, if you grabbed me in the hallway later, I'd be glad to talk to
you about it.
It's just, it seems each school of thought has different ideas.
And the main thing is the viewer has to believe they can do it, and then it works.
You can get some telepathic overlay between the viewers, but if they're trained, if they're
all trained viewers, that's very, it happens very rarely.
And that's what we did in the unit.
We would have, say, we have to describe this new weapon system that was under, in a, hidden
in a, in a quonset hut or something, in Russia or something.
Different viewers would work it and report.
And each viewer has sort of a different angle on what they would be describing.
And then they put the information together, and it would be much more valuable than if
just one person had remote viewed it.
And that's how, that's how operations are run.
You don't just trust the results of one person, because this isn't foolproof.
It's not 100%.
It's really about 80% at its best, okay?
People have imaginations, they have good days, they have bad days.
So you don't want to put all your apples in one basket.
You would use a variety of people and have them work it more than one time.
The way that most people teach control of remote viewing is they use columns for different
types of information.
So that you would use a column for what they call like tangible information things.
So like if you saw a chair, you'd put it there.
And then they use a column for what some people call EIs or people.
And in that place, you'd have persons.
Now you can cue yourself.
When you're remote viewing, if you see a person, you can cue yourself to say, I want to know
what the person's thinking.
I want to know what his job is, or I want to know this.
And you would cue yourself.
And some people do that by acting like they're asking the person, you know, in the mind they'll
say, what do you do?
Other people just say, job, question mark, you know, and get information, more information.
So it's a process where you can keep cueing yourself to get more and more detailed information.
The trick is to follow a protocol that allows for you to recognize imagination and mental
noise.
And that was kind of the idea I introduced with, with the Martial Arts, you know, like
in karate, you know, I'll never go past a white belt.
And you know, when I was awarded, well, my yellow belt, when I was awarded my yellow
belt, the instructor said to me, we really didn't think this person would get to this
point.
And we gave, I got the most improved award for reaching the yellow belt.
And I wisely realized that this body just doesn't go there, okay?
But I got that far, you know?
And if somebody grabs me around my neck, they're history, you know?
I know enough to do that.
Okay, then again, there's other people who are more talented and they'll go on and be
black belts.
The same thing is with remote viewing.
But the difference is, a lot of times people don't know that ahead of time, okay?
Because our society so qualches, psychic experiences, I mean, even I, well, no, that's not true.
But if most people, if their children start to describe what's in a room they've never
been in, you know, they get told, oh, you're imagining things and, oh, this is really ridiculous.
Stop it.
So our society squelches that.
And the only way some people find out that they actually were, are very naturally psychic
is they start taking some training and all of a sudden they take off.
But most, some people usually have some clues, you know, some interest or they always seem
to sort of know who's on the phone, that type of thing.
So there is, it's not something we're teaching from scratch.
It's an inborn human ability that we are just teaching people to use, you know.
People don't know how to write from birth, but they have the capacity to be able to read
and write.
But we have to teach it.
So everybody is born with a capacity remote view and they just need to be taught it and
some will be good at it and others won't be that good, okay?
So now here, let me show you some, just some simple sessions.
I'm going to show you some student sessions, these are mainly students at a time where
they've just had a few classes.
And some are single blind and some are double blind and I don't remember which.
So don't ask.
Okay.
All the student was given was an encrypted coordinate, you know, 22, 33, 56.
Today I think I'll allow that to be, huh, today that number will be the Hagia Sophia
Mosque in Iskambul, Turkey.
And so this novice remote viewer came up with that, okay?
And this is just showing just a piece of their session.
They actually would have said, oh, it's a structure and maybe described again some sensory information
about it.
And then they did a dimensional sketch, okay?
Here's another example with the Great Pyramid, okay?
That was their sketch and I'll read their description to you since it's not very legible
there.
Student summary.
At the end of the session, before they're given their feedback, they're asked to sort
of summarize what their session was.
And this viewer said, rising up over a bleak, spare landscape is a solitary, solid structure.
Colors of black, white, and gray.
It's like when I was drawing, the sketch is morphed into a triangular structure like
the Chiap's Pyramid.
Okay.
Well, it was the Great Pyramid, but that he recognized that as himself as not having
enough information to say that, that was his analytical response.
He didn't actually get the word Chiap's Pyramid in his head as data.
The structure is located in a bleak, undescript, expansive area, which was gray and monotonous.
Bands or lines move horizontally across the structure and at the top of the lines radiate
around the peak of the structure.
It is solid.
Okay.
Solid structure.
Okay.
Here's a monastery.
That was their sketch.
Their description, which is too lengthy, so I'm going to just switch back to the drawing
while I read it.
The structure is multi-leveled with squares, repetitions of triangles, and a doomed area.
There's a parking lot outside in trees.
There are people here.
There's a stepping down or up area.
There are bird and barking sounds.
Colors are white, green, gray, red, blue, gold, yellow, brown are present.
Inside the colors brown and black are also present.
There's something green colored and gritty.
There are wintered surfaces and stone surfaces.
There's light shining through colored glass.
Something is round, tall, and narrow.
There's something ornate, and the structure has historic values.
See, that's an example of an intangible.
There are rectangular doors and cars in the parking lot.
There is an impression of seriousness, respectfulness, deeply felt feelings.
It is a place where opinions are expressed and people have anticipation of outcomes.
There are people white flowing clothing with draping over the head on some.
There are books and files at the site.
There's a work of art here.
It is a holy place.
So that's from a student, so you can see the type of information.
It's not as if you're there with a video camera, or they're walking through it.
But when all those little bits of three and five words they get in, or ideas come in,
by the time you put it together, it's pretty comprehensive.
This is again probably about 45 minutes worth of work.
Here's a sample operational session.
In this case, it was a client who was afraid.
Another company was doing, they had information that another company was using one of their
manufacturing processes illegally.
They were patent infringement.
They wanted to know whether they should waste more resources going after this company, because
they would have, obviously, they can't use remote viewing and take it to a court of law
and say, hey, look, I got a patent government view that this is happening.
We've got it.
They owe us millions of dollars in damages.
But what it did was, by telling them certain things that maybe a process he was being used,
they could use other means then to spend the energy to go after a company.
Now again, you can't expect to personally give information like they have a video camera.
So in this case, the client needed to know, what they wanted to know was whether or not
it was a process involving nozzles and gases and things like that.
And so they were able to say, if ours is the only process that uses gases that smell like
this or look like this, and ours is the only process that maybe uses nozzles that are shaped
a certain way.
And I don't want to go into any more detail, because I don't want to infringe on their patent.
But here's just some sample sketches, and I'm going to read.
This was, now on a project like this, you have maybe four or five viewers, and you have
probably 20 sessions or so, a lot of work.
And so this is just a small excerpt from one session.
And again, the viewer was only given encrypted coordinates.
The person monitoring him had no clue what he was working to be able to get him to where
he wanted.
What we do is a process where we use their own words to cue them.
At some point, he said, there's nozzles here.
So the monitor said, tell me about the nozzles, OK?
So once the cue of nozzles was given, and this is the writing of the viewer, immediate
impression of Bernoulli principle along with dimensional concept of necking down and tapered,
German word spritzen came out, and that means squirting, along with sucking, re-cuing of
nozzles produced cylindrical, tapered, and ported, designed to reduce turbulence to improve
flow efficiency, then to contribute to turbulence, to chaotic interaction later in the sequence.
Items are relatively small, very hard, shiny, machine-precised, but also thick-walled and
robust, or durable.
There's a concept of projecting into, as well as mixing streams, which lead to laminar flow.
There's the idea that these nozzles externally taper to a rounded end, through which a fluid
or a gas is propelled, but a little ways back from this end, there are ports or openings
to let the cylinder, which pass through the channel, through which a substance is being
projected, and it goes on and on and on, and he, you know, he says, tolerance is here,
reach the micron level, there's a sense of venting.
So this is the type of infusion.
He's not giving enough that you could possibly make this thing, OK, but he's giving enough
that somebody knows about it, can say, this is type A or type B. OK, so that's kind of
the idea of remote viewing.
You don't get this perfect information as if you're there, but you do.
If you ask the question the right way, it can do very powerful things, OK?
Ha!
This is the fun part.
Who is brand new to remote viewing?
Has never tried it?
OK.
Come on up.
I want you to tell me either A, B, C, D, or E. Just stand up.
Say a letter between A and E. C, OK, everybody, the target is C, OK, and we're going to say
fair coordinates is today's date is what, the 18th?
14th, OK, 0614C, 15th, 0615C, OK, that represents the site for picture C in his folder, OK?
You can either remote view the photograph or you can go to the site.
That's your choice.
And so what you want to do before you get started, I've told you the coordinates, is
clear your mind.
Write your name, date, and location, and the time at the top, OK?
We're in Las Vegas.
It is 206, and it's the 15th, correct, 15th, June 15, 2001.
Now can somebody tell me why I'm asking you to write down where you are?
The reason is you can't know where you're going if you don't know where you are, OK?
So that's where you are, OK?
Put your worries away, which you have none, because we're having fun, and write your coordinate
and think, what do I perceive, OK?
And while you're writing down, use simple words and phrases.
You're less likely to have imagination if you limit yourself, limit your vocabulary.
And I'm going to give you exactly four minutes to do that.
Is it, was it a clear picture?
Did you get an instant impression of what it was?
Was it hazy?
Was it a little bits and pieces coming in?
Did anybody want to volunteer?
You don't want to participate, this is no fun.
Yes, bits and pieces you're not certain, it's kind of femoral, just sort of, did I really
hear that?
Did I really see that?
Kind of like that?
Yeah.
A fog, like little bits of structure.
Yeah, it's not a clear thing, it's very, it's almost like if you, did I really, it's
sort of like it came in over here, and you sort of looked out of the corner of your eye.
That's kind of the feeling if you're getting good data.
Does anybody want to volunteer?
What the Gestalt is?
Remember we talked about the Gestalt being the main idea, land, structure, okay, somebody
got an inanimate and they didn't sense any people.
Lots and lots of blue and some kind of idea of black bars.
What about you?
What did you get?
Gritty, brown, blue, temperate, blue-gray, okay, lots and lots of land.
Okay, a big box, almost like a nuclear power generator, something like that, yes?
I realized I was looking at a broken slat fence, and I was trying to figure out what
white, what in the world would white be, and then all of a sudden I got an impression
or a feeling of a tower.
Finally about the time I quit, I realized I was looking at a lighthouse on an old, dilapidated
beach with a wooden walkway, but I don't know how much of that I dreamed up myself and how
much of it came to me naturally.
Yeah, so that's a hard part, because you get, the information comes in bits and pieces,
but your mind wants to complete the picture, and your mind wants very badly to complete
the picture, because that's the reason you're alive today.
If you didn't take in bits and pieces of information in everyday life and immediately make conclusions,
like that ring on the stove is red, therefore it's hot, you know, or that is a line behind
me in the woods, you'd be dead, okay?
So the mind has been trained so thoroughly to jump to these conclusions.
So you'll have bits and pieces of information, and then I'll try to create a picture.
And the idea is, how do you deal with that?
You can't keep it from happening, but what you need to do is figure out, okay, if it's
complete, I have to reject it.
If it's bits and pieces, then it's the correct image, okay, it's the correct data.
A cylindrical structure, and then I saw a silo and then a kind of rectangle with an opening,
and then, I don't know, like a kind of teepee, and then when she said, man-made but natural,
and it was very warm, thinking that there was a kind of glow there, some kind of a fire.
Well, my summary is just that it's a light-weight, light-colored, curved, smooth object that's
taller than it is wide, and in some way it mimics a life form.
Mimics a life form, I like that.
The process itself, when we call it the signal line, knows that your imagination will take
over.
So, oftentimes it'll describe things in ways that really sound ridiculous but are true.
Like I recently had a client who was remote feeling a swimming pool, and his subconscious
knew, if I'd say the word swimming pool, he's going to have a hard time working because
he's going to get AOL about every swimming pool he's ever seen.
So they said, a large container, stone container of water.
Well, that's the swimming pool if I've ever seen one, okay?
And that's the way.
A lot of times as you get better and better at this, your mind will get sneaky and figure
ways of, how do I tell him what we perceive without making his imagination kick in?
And that kind of phraseology is exactly the type thing.
Okay, now, okay, it's man-made and natural, it's not temperate, but look, you have the
idea of the teepee is there, okay?
You've actually got a lot of white, okay?
There's not a structure, but there is people there.
And so you see, it's very, you see how the good data comes through and the imagination
can take over, okay?
A lot of people that had gritty, gritty and brown came across, okay?
The white definitely came across.
That shape, everybody had kind of that shape that was talking.
But you see how the imagination tries to kick in.
And that's where trained remote viewing helps you, okay?
So did you have fun?
Okay.
My name is Patrick Marsalic, I live in Helena, Montana.
And I'm a researcher and writer, and I teach intuition and remote viewing classes in Montana.
And I come into this field from a little different perspective than many of the people that have
been speaking so far, although I agree in many, many ways, and I'm very excited with
what's being presented here.
My experience comes from my own explorations into consciousness, into meditating, doing
yoga, exploring my own awareness of who I am, and that is the focus in the classes that
I teach.
So this is going to be a little shift from what we've been doing so far in that this
is going to be more experiential, what we're going to do in the next 45 minutes or an hour.
I'll probably cut it a little shorter so we can kind of get back on schedule after I'm
done here.
And so within this, shifting over to sensory awareness and to experience, I'm going to
have each one of you here that's willing to and wants to do some experiences of your own
to get a sense of how attention and sensory awareness, how we focus our consciousness,
can directly relate to the work that we do with remote viewing and with using intuition.
And like Russell Targ said, any experience you have meditating, focusing your mind, training
your mind in some way, and the same thing as Dean Raiden said this morning also that
it will affect the way you can remove view.
It will affect the quality of your sessions.
It will affect your ability to differentiate the signal line from the noise that's there
with it to be able to differentiate it from all the other sensations that are normally
going on in our awareness.
So has everyone got a piece of paper handed out?
And I handed out pine cones.
Did everyone get a pine cone?
Paul.
Okay, they're going to be going around.
And if anything, you get at least to walk away with a pine cone from Montana.
So consider that an added bonus.
That'll be part of the sensory awareness.
As I'm doing this presentation, I'm just going to have several slides up that are more landscape,
more scenic.
And you can just enjoy them, look at them, enjoy the imagery.
Part of this once again is it going to be, I'm going to show you some things, some ways
that you can begin to become aware of many different things that affect your attention
and affect your awareness.
And so even now as you're sitting, you're listening to me, you're thinking, perhaps
you're thinking about your lunch, perhaps you're thinking about some of the presentations
that you listened to this morning.
So even while you're doing that, there's many different levels of our awareness that basically
are always going on in our consciousness.
And just to say right now while I'm thinking about it, an important part of this is that
my feeling is the more you can recognize what's in your consciousness in an ordinary state,
right now for instance as you're sitting here, if you can be aware of things that are affecting
your awareness, that are affecting your attention, and learn to be aware of those things, it
will carry over into your work doing remote viewing, to your work using intuition.
And that you're basically learning a skill that you're going to be using regardless of
how you're perceiving, if you're perceiving intuitively, if you're perceiving normally.
So for instance right now, sitting here, what sounds are you aware of?
What sensations in your body are you experiencing?
And are you aware of them at all while you're thinking, while you're listening to me?
So some of those kind of thoughts just starting to put it out there a little bit, there are
many different ways of focusing our awareness and there are many different levels of information
to be aware of.
So there's another nice one, I forgot to show that one.
Can you see that, okay?
Is that a little dim?
Is there any way to brighten up that slide?
You can turn down the lights, that'd be fine with me, if someone wants to do that.
This is just a brief simple chart, not certainly comprehensive by any means, in the back.
Take that in the back.
Of some of the kinds of things that grab our attention, we have internal processes going
on, our body needs hunger, temperature fluctuations in our body, emotions, thoughts, and we have
external stimulus that are grabbing our attention, all kinds of sensorial information, all the
senses, emotions that are also external to us that we may be perceiving.
So what I'm going to do, the reason I gave you these handouts right off the bat is on
the back side of the handouts, there's a blank sheet of paper, so what I want you to do now
to start this experiential process is to take a pen, hopefully if you don't have one, just
ask your neighbor for one.
What I want you to do is just to go through those words there, thoughts, emotions, feelings,
just write down anything at all that you're aware of that you're experiencing right now.
Are there any thoughts, are you thinking about what you had for lunch, a conversation you
had perhaps, somewhere you're going later, any emotions, any feelings, that's good.
And as you're doing that, you may notice that it starts to shift your awareness just a little
bit.
The tendency with this kind of format is to focus all of your attention not only on me,
which I want you to do to some degree, but also on that mode of attending, focused and
objective, focusing on the words and the thoughts that the words I'm saying may bring up in
your mind.
And so part of us turning to a more sensory mode of awareness is we're going to start
to include what you're feeling as well into your experience of what I'm saying.
Does that make sense?
So that starts that shift, that starts a little shift in your awareness.
You may notice that you become aware even of how you were sitting, which you weren't
aware of a moment before.
There may be tensions in your body that you haven't been aware of, and any time you notice
something that needs your attention, you can respond to it, you can move your body if you
need to, take a deep breath, and still focus and still have the ability to engage yourself
with the information that you're listening to and that you're watching on the slides.
And so throughout the rest of my presentation, I'm going to be talking about flexibility,
being able to be flexible between a focused awareness and a more diffuse awareness.
Can you be aware of the sounds in the room around you as you're aware of my voice and
what I'm saying?
And it takes some practice too.
So this starts a little bit of a shift, one way of thinking about it, and this is just
one way.
This is from a book on hypnagogia by Andreas Mavromatis, and all of these slides are in
your notes and all the references are in that handout that I gave you.
So you don't have to worry about writing it down, you have it already.
Generally speaking, we spend most of our day in the left side of our brain in a more active
mode, which would be the action mode up here.
Muscle system and nervous system dominant, up more in beta.
It's more a state of doing, of achieving something, of striving.
Psychological attributes would be having a more focused attention, having a very concrete
sense of self, of who we are distinct and distinguished from everyone else that's around
us.
But as Russell Targ said earlier, in a deeper level, we have this concept that we're all
interconnected, that we don't normally go around with that kind of awareness in our
consciousness, in our attention.
But as we begin to shift over to a more perceptive mode of awareness, allowing the sensations
in our bodies, in our minds, it starts to shift to a right brain mode of awareness,
which is more sensory dominant, parasympathetic systems, more prominent, the automatic system
systems in our bodies, the EEG will start to drift down towards alpha, and it's a state
of allowing, of passivity, of relaxation.
And the psychological correlates of this are a more diffuse mode of attending.
Awareness tends to smooth out a little.
And the state of your ego sense also tends to expand.
When you tune into the sensations on your skin, you suddenly begin to sense yourself
in a more broader state, perhaps even connected, in a small way, with a person sitting next
to you or in front of you or behind you.
So this is just one way of thinking about it, continuing that process of starting to
shift out.
And we're all going to start to shift out more and more, and I'm going to lead you
through an exercise in a few minutes to experience that a little deeper.
And just to say now, at the end of this, we'll do a simple remote viewing exercise.
Just to give you a taste of one other way of experiencing this, the process of remote
viewing and of using intuition.
So this is a fairly familiar optical illusion.
You can either see this as a vase or as two faces looking at each other.
Is there anybody that can't see both of those options?
So what we're going to do now is taking that piece of paper you have in front of you, is
we're just going to do a little exercise to shift a little more into the right brain mode
of thinking.
And one of the guests mentioned earlier, a book called Drawing on the Right Side of
the Brain by Betty Edwards, which is a classic in teaching you how to draw.
Anyone that can't draw and wants to draw, I recommend it.
And I think I mentioned it in the notes as well, so you have that reference.
So what we're going to do is, what I want you to do is just think in your mind's eye
an image of a human profile, the face, the profile of a face.
So just take one side of that.
And in your mind, you probably already have an image of what a symbol of a profile would
look like.
And so what I'm going to have you do in a moment is I want you to just draw one side
of that face, just one profile.
And as you can see here, if you're left-handed, draw the right side, draw the face on the
right, which is actually facing left.
And if you're right-handed, do it the way it is on the bottom.
And you can do that now.
Just go ahead.
And no one else is going to see it.
It's just for you.
And then you can just draw the lines over the top once you get it and stop there.
I don't want you to go any farther.
Now what you can do once you've done that is maybe just touch your pen to the different
spots on that profile that you drew and say what they are.
Forehead, eyes, nose, lips, chin.
And that's the left brain and how it works.
It takes a symbol that you have in your memory and from that you can draw.
And you notice that each part of that drawing has a meaning, a symbolic meaning.
It correlates to something in your experience.
So now what we're going to do is I want you to draw the other half of that face.
But when you do so, I want you to make it a mirror image of the first one that you drew.
And as you do so, you may just take a few moments, it may take you a little longer.
Just notice how it makes you feel when you do that, as you do that.
So how are we doing?
Not so good, she said.
Anybody else?
Any interesting reactions when you try and do that?
A lot more concentration.
It's harder.
And what happens is this forces your mind to shift into the perceptive mode of awareness.
Because in order to do that and to make it a mirror image, you have to actually perceive
what's on the paper rather than perceiving the symbol that was in your mind.
And this takes practice.
It takes practice to shift over into that perceptive mode of awareness.
That's a very simple exercise right away just to give you a sense of what that feels like.
It may seem difficult, it may seem like a little jerky, perhaps.
And you also may notice that you're a little self-critical of your drawing and the quality
of your image.
And just like in the remote viewing sessions, in training to do remote viewing, noticing
that criticality is important, and just like we did a few moments before when I had you
notice what feelings you were feeling, do it again now.
How did that make you feel?
Are your thoughts different?
Do you have even an emotional response to that?
And some people do.
It may take you back to second grade or third grade.
And so at any time you are engaging in shifting over into your right brain, engaging in an
intuitive mode of perception, any kinds of stimulus may arise in your consciousness.
It may be a memory, it may be a feeling, it may be an emotion.
And just like in the remote viewing training, if you can attend to whatever it is and notice
it, it will allow you to let go of it and to move beyond that and to stay present, basically.
So it's not a matter of being judgmental, even now when you're feeling a temperature
in your body, for instance.
Are you cold?
Are you warm?
You're not being critical or judgmental of that, you may just notice it, oh, I'm feeling
warm.
In the same way you can just notice anything that you're perceiving, you can allow yourself
to stay in an objective observer stance.
Whatever the information is, whatever it is that engages your consciousness, you can also
just notice it.
And in doing so, that allows you to continue that method of spreading out your focus, spreading
out your attention in a way that allows you to then engage with whatever the stimulus
is.
So even now, if you are someone that's trained in this in doing remote viewing, say, or if
you're a natural, intuitive in some way, you may just naturally get intuitive information
even now while you're sitting here.
And to the degree that you can recognize and be aware of any information that's in your
consciousness, it will allow you to be more present, to be more responsive, and to be
able to engage in whatever that stimulus is, regardless of whether or not you're doing
remote viewing, if you are having a personal conversation with a friend, if you're at work,
whatever you're doing, this will develop that consciousness practice.
So going back to what Russell Targ said earlier, that there's this important element of self-consciousness
and self-awareness that you can continue building with this kind of an interest, this group
here interested in remote viewing, there can be a lot more to it than just reaching goals
and reaching targets and having objective, quantifiable results.
There's an internal process that is, in many ways, that can be much more exciting, not
much more exciting but equally as exciting, and it can carry into many different aspects
of our lives.
So now I'm going to show you another way to shift your focus and shift your attention.
There's a fellow named Dr. Les Femme, who is a psychologist at Princeton University,
and he is also a neurofeedback researcher.
And back in the late 60s, early 70s, he became very interested in the reports on what alpha
frequencies would do to personal experience.
Many people were saying, if they get into an alpha state, you'd have all kinds of these
amazing experiences.
So what he did is he hooked himself up to an EEG and tried to create alpha waves and
had a hard time of it.
He was trained very rigidly in his psychology training, and he was also an engineer, I believe.
What he found is the harder he tried to create alpha waves, the more his alpha waves kind
of stayed down at the lower end of the scale.
But finally, he got so frustrated that he gave up, and as soon as he gave up, the alpha
peaked and went way up high, and that made him wonder a little bit.
And so he did that several more times and found out that with practice, he could learn
how to create these alpha waves, and as soon as he was able to do that, that moment that
he gave up trying, not only did he experience alpha, but he experienced a personal psychological
breakthrough in terms of his felt sense of well-being.
He felt like an immense load had lifted off his awareness.
And so immediately he started wondering what's going on here, what is it with this alpha
frequency, and how can I create it?
As a psychologist, he wanted to know how he could help people get this sense of well-being.
And so what he found is he started administering a series of hypnotic questions designed to
ascertain depth of hypnosis, but in this case, he was just using it to see if his subjects
would respond in a certain way to be able to create alpha at any point in the questionnaire.
They found that generally most of the questions dealing with states of hypnosis, states of
relaxation didn't have anything to do with whether or not they had alpha, but there were
two questions that did have significant results, and those questions were, can you imagine the
space in between your ears, and can you imagine the space in between your eyes?
What he found across the board is when people tried to imagine the space in between their
ears, they immediately had a peak of alpha frequencies in their brainwaves.
So that kind of makes you wonder.
And so he did a lot more exploring and experimenting with this idea of imagining space, and what
that does.
And what he found in his theories are that trying to imagine space does not give your
conscious analytical mind anything it can actually hold on to, and in doing so it forces
it to actually expand that focus of awareness, that focus of attention.
So he started to see right away there's an aspect of how you attend to things that can
also create this alpha frequency, not necessarily the object of your attention, but the method
of attending.
And this he went on to create this theory called open focus.
And what he says basically is that we have many different ways of attending, and he divides
it up into four quadrants, narrow, either narrow or diffuse, either objective or immersed
or subjective.
And that we tend to spend most of our time in a very narrow, objective state up in the
right hand corner there.
And that this rigidity in the way that we attend to things actually creates many, many different
kinds of stress, many kinds of illness.
What he found as soon as he started having people imagining space, not only did they
create alpha, but they experienced spontaneous remission of all kinds of different physical
illnesses and symptoms and general states of well-being and relaxation.
And that just came through the idea of imagining space.
Now the word imagining here is important because what it does, it allows you to experience
it without having to try.
What he found is if he told you, I want you to try and imagine space, that it would create
a trying experience for you.
And so the word imagination is important.
It allows you to free up from the idea that you have to create it, that you're on the
spot.
So can you imagine right now that in the next few minutes you can experience any idea that
I offer you in a way that's just right for you?
Can you imagine that?
So whatever the issue is, there is a way of approaching it that takes the pressure off,
whatever the pressure is to achieve something, to create something immediate.
In this process, in this awareness practice, it's not, it's just like what Lynn Buchanan
said about the targets.
It doesn't matter what information you get.
What matters is that you're learning something about how you're attending.
You're learning something about your consciousness and your awareness.
And in the process, you're learning experiences as well.
You're learning to know what it feels like.
So I think what we'll do before I go a little farther is I'll have you pay attention for
a moment to your pine cones.
So what I want you to do is I want you to experience those pine cones.
Can you imagine that you can allow yourself to experience them in whatever way is just
right for you?
And as you do so, just explore with all of your senses.
What I want you to do is to look, to feel, to smell.
You may even hear sounds as you're touching.
And on your pieces of paper, I want you to just write down a few words that come into
your mind, a few descriptors.
Anything at all.
And you may notice a mental reaction.
You may feel something, you may feel silly, for instance.
You may find it interesting.
So once again, just tuning into what you're sensing, what you're experiencing, as you
do that.
Some people even like to taste these, maybe a stretch for some of you, but you can try
it if you want and it won't hurt you.
You may notice that as you do so, you become aware of more information there, perhaps than
when you were just holding it while you were listening to me.
There's more there.
There's more going on.
There's a whole range of words that come into your mind that might describe what you've
experienced there, what you feel.
So anytime you do this, it is in effect creating a bridge.
It's bridging that sensory awareness to your ability to describe, to use language.
Back to the first drawing on the modes of awareness, it's bridging the action mode to
the receptive mode, the analytical to the perceptive.
This is a very good exercise in any way that you can, if you can engage your senses in
the present, what you're experiencing, it will carry over into your intuitive work.
If you're experiencing intuitively a sensation, an image, an awareness of some kind, you'll
have a better capability of describing it if it's something that you do.
How much time do we spend doing that ordinarily?
Do we spend most of our time objectively in narrow focus?
So as you engage your senses, you may notice that suddenly you're aware of two or three
senses.
Your focus is expanding.
It's not as narrow.
It's more diffuse.
And just as a note, this touching in with what you're feeling, what you're experiencing
is what I call an ecology check.
Anytime you do it, the more you do it, the better you become at it, the better you become
at being aware.
So even now as you're experiencing that, are you still aware of the sensation of your body
sitting in the chair as you're experiencing the pine cone?
And what Les Femi found is that you can have all of these different modes of attention
simultaneously.
He called that open focus.
And he sells a tape series to help you experience that open focus and I'll guide you through
just a little bit of what that experience is like.
What he found is that you can have access to and flexibility with all of these different
states.
And the more you use them, the better you get.
And the more you use them, it doesn't inhibit your ability to focus when you need to, but
it allows you to let go when you don't need that focused objective awareness.
For instance, many of us have seen cats, house cats or big cats hunting and relaxed.
And when a cat is relaxed, it is very much in its body, obviously very relaxed, flexible.
And yet as soon as a stimulus arises that captures its attention in some way, say perhaps
maybe it's a mouse, immediately the awareness of that cat goes objectively and is focused.
Something else is forgotten and it'll go for the mouse very, very effectively.
And then say that mouse gets away, it'll stand and wait and watch for a few minutes and then
it'll go back and sit down and stretch, get back into its body, let go and its focus will
diffuse again.
And that's that flexibility in talking about that ability to shift rapidly in and out focused
back to diffuse.
So can you focus on the pine cone, look at it, go back to what you're sensing, what you're
experiencing, focus, go back, focus, go back, flexibility.
In many, many ways you may learn many, many things about yourself just attending to that,
just attending to what's in your awareness, how you attend to things.
Interestingly, you may notice as you're perceiving this pine cone that there's some senses that
you don't really engage in very much.
It's a sense of smell, it doesn't really attract you and or you may not smell anything.
Now what I've found is that you may notice in your intuitive sessions if you do any kind
of remote viewing that in the same way you may miss out on certain sensations, textures,
dimensions, anything like that.
So this kind of a process with ordinary tactile awareness will also enhance your ability to
do remote viewing.
This is a belief of mine and it's an experience of mine.
Okay, so now you can put down the pine cones, we'll let go of those for now, and is that
something you can do as your attention's still there, interested?
It takes a little practice.
So can you imagine that you can experience what I'm going to describe to you in a few
moments, whatever it is, once again, in just the right way that's right for you.
There's no right way and there's no wrong way.
So I'd like you to do, let me see where my slides are at here.
Oh, this was a little bit about how the mode, the action mode and the receptive mode kind
of fit over that open focus.
My senses, they all blend together and this brings to mind another comment.
Some people say that you don't need any kind of altered state to do remote viewing.
Some people say it may be helpful in some way.
The extended remote viewers tend to do that kind of a process.
My experience personally is that in whatever way you can be flexible, allowing yourself
to go in or out is more important than whether or not you can stay and maintain a certain
state of consciousness.
As a meditator, as I'm also a hypnotherapist, that's what I do for a living, I recognize
in myself that the ability to go there enables you to do it spontaneously whenever you need
to.
So even when you engage in this pine cone, in a sense you're going into a trance because
you're focusing on a sensation.
And anytime you focus on one sensation, you remove yourself from all the other ordinary
sensations that we are ordinarily entertaining in our consciousness.
And anytime you do that, you are in a sense in a trance.
So that entrancement may happen very, very quickly, very, very rapidly, and in effect,
back to the open focus model, they may all exist simultaneously.
So it's not a matter of whether or not you can go into a trance or you need to go into
a trance or you need to stay objective.
It's a matter of being flexible and allowing yourself to experience whatever it is that
is in your awareness already.
So what I'd like you to do is to just sit up straight, set your pine cones aside, and
maybe take a deep breath or two, and then I would like you to allow yourself to close
your eyes.
And can you imagine once again that whatever you experience spontaneously, either perceptions
or sensations, is what is just right for you?
Now we know from physics and chemistry that each molecule is actually very, very small
points of matter surrounded by vast regions of space.
Tissues and neutrons surrounded by electrons vastly separated from each other.
So can you imagine now that all of the cells and muscles and tissues in your body are also
composed of vast regions of space?
Can you imagine your whole body filled with space?
And at the same time, can you imagine the perimeter or the circumference of your body,
the exterior of your body, entirely composed of space?
And at the same time, can you imagine the inside of your body as well as the circumference
of your body, the edge, entirely filled with space?
And even as you continue this, you may notice that your awareness has a tendency to shift
or to drift in some way, and in whatever way that happens, that's just fine.
As you start doing this kind of process, sometimes we overshoot our goal.
You may feel as though you become sleepy, and that's okay.
It'll stabilize.
It'll level out.
So can you imagine now that each inhale of your breath naturally coming in fills up all
of that space in your body, filling it entirely with space?
And can you imagine that with each exhale, as your breath flows naturally and smoothly
out, that it leaves your entire body completely filled with empty space?
Can you imagine that space?
Is it possible to imagine all of the space outside your body, in front, behind, above
and below, and to the sides, all the way out, to the walls and the floor and the ceiling,
completely filled with space?
And at the same time, is it possible to imagine all of the space inside your body, and is
it possible even to imagine that the edge of your body dissolves so that the inside
filled with space and the outside, all around you, filled with space, become one and the
same?
Can you imagine that anything at all that comes into your awareness, any sensation, even
one of discomfort, can you imagine that you can experience it?
Just watching without needing to respond in any way, not needing to do anything or not
do anything, just observing.
Can you imagine that in the same way, is it possible to imagine that all the sensations
or feelings you experience, you can allow into your awareness, any smells, sounds, tastes,
images, feelings, emotions, that they can all exist simultaneously, as well as the sensation
of space within you and all around you?
Can you imagine, is it possible to imagine in the same way that you can allow even any
intuitive information you might receive in the same way into your awareness, as well
as the sense of space inside you and around you?
And then can you imagine allowing your focus once again to narrow just a little, allowing
you to come back into your eyes, into your thoughts, just enough so that you can write
down again on your paper, any sensations, any feelings that you're experiencing?
You can do so.
And as you do so, can you even allow your sense of space inside and outside to stay
with you as you focus on a thought, a word, a sensation?
You may even notice how the sound in the room around you enters your awareness one moment
and drifts away.
And then allowing what is now in your visual field, the thoughts that are in your mind,
and the sensation of your arm moving, if it is.
Can you allow your gaze to rest again on the slide in front of the room while you allow
that sense of space to stay with you inside and outside?
And with an image like this, you may notice how there seems to be a central object, like
a flower.
You could call that the subject of the slide, and the green area behind you could call the
background.
So is it possible to imagine that slide as where the green area is the subject and the
flower is the background?
Is it possible?
Is it possible to see the green area and the flower equally as neither subject nor background?
In the same way, is it possible to see the image of the slide with the green and the
flower as the background and the area around the slide on the screen as the subject?
Is that possible?
In the same way, is it possible to allow the area around the slide as well as the information
contained in the slide and the flower all to be equally balanced, neither background
nor subject?
In the same way, can you imagine all of the information in your visual field, including
the space in between you and the slide, including everything else that you see as the background
and your thoughts as the figure, is it possible to imagine your thoughts as the background
and all of the visual information that you are experiencing as the figure?
And is it possible, can you imagine that all of the thoughts, activity in your mental awareness
as well as the visual information you are experiencing as the background and the sounds
that you hear as the figure?
And so as you allow those movements to flow through you, you may notice sometimes it's
a little easier one way and a little harder the other.
In the same way, you can continue moving through all your sensations.
So once again, what I'd like you to do is just take a moment now on your paper if you
have any more room there.
Let's just write down anything at all that you are experiencing, any sensations, any
thoughts, any feelings.
Just observing, just noticing whatever it is.
It's a process of awareness, of discovery, and in that sense you can bring that discovery
that experience of perhaps seeing something differently into all of your practice, your
remote viewing practice, your practice of consciousness if you are interested in doing
that.
So can you imagine that from within that kind of experience you could do, you could access
or reach for something intuitive?
You imagine that, what that would feel like, allowing your attention to focus perhaps on
a sensation or an experience.
So in a moment, I'm going to show you another slide and what I'd like you to do is just
to allow yourself to go forward and look at what it's going to be.
Can you imagine yourself just allowing whatever comes into your awareness now, any sensation,
any experience, any feeling, to notice it, and to write it down if you want on your paper,
and notice how it may move, it may change spontaneously in some way, and at the same
time just allowing whatever sense of that space that you have within you to remain inside
and around your body.
You may notice how your awareness spontaneously, all on its own, will shift according to whatever
you're sensing, and thus you can follow a sensation as information, allowing it to become
present in your awareness, to write it down, may even have a sense of an image or a visual
and a sketch, and then letting it go, noticing is there something else.
And then in a few moments I'm just going to show you that slide, and what I feel is an
important part about this kind of awareness process is to realize that we continually
can maintain this kind of an awareness, this kind of flexibility, moving inwards, moving
outwards, focusing, becoming more diffuse, and so even as you get feedback, as I'm going
to show you a picture in a few minutes, you may notice that your mind has a tendency to
do something.
Whatever that is, it may respond in a certain way.
So you ready?
Did I put everybody to sleep?
Okay.
And so I'd like you to do, first of all now, to yourself, if you have any room on your
paper, is just to describe that image to yourself.
The first thing that grabs you right down, the first words, might be shape, might be
color, might be meaning, might be a more complex perception.
And as you do so, that allows you to stay in that sensory awareness.
What can easily happen is we become very critical as soon as we get feedback.
We shift automatically back to that narrow, objective, focused state of awareness.
And that's okay if that treats you well and you want to stay there, but you can also bring
flexibility into this phase of any remote viewing exercise that you do.
And so I feel it's an important aspect to engage yourself in the feedback, whatever
it is.
And as you do so, you may notice that there are perceptions there that you might have
written down, that your objective mind may not have been aware of.
So it allows you to engage with it a little fuller, a little more deeply.
And so I think, have we had enough of that?
I'll leave it up for a minute.
Oh, well, I'll leave it there.
Do I need to hang it up here?
Okay.
So just as a recap now, the whole idea of flexibility in developing sensory awareness
and attentional styles can bring a lot of more awareness into your practice, whatever
your practice is, if it's remote viewing, if it's meditation, if it's self-exploration.
The same thing, the same open focus exercises, can you imagine space?
When Les Femme did this with Buddhist meditators, a few of them had these amazing insights and
breakthroughs in their practice where they had been practicing, say, for perhaps 20 years,
and suddenly had a new way of looking at meditation, what that experience of meditation
was.
So going back to what Dean Raiden said earlier in Russell Tark, this ability to be aware
to practice a mental awareness, this is one way you can do that.
Just being aware, tuning in, expanding your method of attending the way you focus your
awareness.
Okay.
I think that's all I'm going to talk about.
Okay.
Thank you.
