Welcome to Disk 4 of the Learn Remote Viewing set with Major Ed Dames.
In this final instructional DVD, you will execute two advanced enigma targets.
You'll analyze your data right along with the workshop class to hypothesize potential
conclusions.
You will then be shown how to perform follow-up sessions on elements of your site template
to obtain additional information about your target to determine the answer to the question.
The last two sessions, targets three and four, will not require your participation with the
workshop class, as with all other targets in this course.
However, you will be informed of the cues that are utilized by the class so that you
may execute the same targets for yourself or with an RB team on your own.
We call this site template because most of the problems that you deal with will deal
with physical entities, the physical world.
You're going to be looking for a broken thing on your car, the space shuttle.
You're going to be looking for the lost Dutchman mind, the physical world.
We call that a site.
It can also be called an idea template.
If you're using remote viewing to gain some insight into abstract concepts of God, love,
mathematics, or something like that, your data may only be symbolic.
How do we know that the data is symbolic?
Because when you express it, you will not be able to pick up smells and taste and temperatures.
You go, symbols don't have that.
A cross, for instance, or a swastika doesn't have a smell or a taste or a temperature.
It does have colors and it does have shape.
When we use remote viewing to investigate ideas, ideas of reality, all their own life,
death, those kinds of things, then we may end up in a situation where we don't have
a site template, we have an idea template made up purely of symbols.
We have to make sure this first session that this is crystal clear to everybody.
I've tried to make it as simple as possible.
Use this on everything that you do.
Those little arrows, put your pen on the arrow and look at what's next, what's next,
what's next.
Just like playing the piano, what note do I play next?
What note do I play next?
Don't look back.
The only time that we look back in our business, as you know now, is when we do the analytical
sketches here, movement from the top of X, something should be perceivable, we produce
an ideogram.
These stage twos, at the end of the stage two list, we have dimensions.
That's when we look back.
In order to do the analytical sketch, we have to look back at the dimensions that we acquired
here.
That's about the only time that we look back except for the construction of a site template.
When we collate and compile all the papers, your analytical sketches and whatever.
Constructing a site template, some people ask, well, I have an AOL.
So what?
You've already done an end run around the creative mind.
It's too late.
It doesn't matter whether you have an AOL or not, because it's not going to affect the
output at all.
It's done.
The site's done.
That's the beauty of the process.
It does an end run around the creative mind.
So follow the dots.
The next movement is the same as X, exploring A, the same as X, exploring B, the same.
If you want to take a break, ask yourself if you need one at the end of stage four.
That's the only opportunity that you have to take a break.
When you come back in, you start with a movement exercise.
Wherever you're at, A, B, C, D, whatever.
This time, I'm not going to limit how many key aspects, key side aspects.
I'm not going to limit how many you put there.
Generally speaking, X, A, B, and the ones near the front in priority order are pretty
much required to construct a site template.
Why is that?
Your unconscious has a strategy that it form fits to you to solve a problem.
What in the viewers, the SARS in the toolbox, what kinds of memories does the viewer have?
What kinds of memories of things and ideas can I, this viewers award unconscious mind
use to construct and a site diagram and solve this problem?
It will draw upon whatever's in your noggin to do that.
It formulates a strategy and that strategy first gets, pops out as an ideogram and then
as a freehand sketch, which is the most important page in the session outside of the site template.
The symbols that are here are all of the key elements archetypically expressed and they
are a function of your unconscious mind strategy to solve this problem.
In stage four, your unconscious has a strategy also.
It doesn't willy-nilly explore aspect A or aspect B or X and say, okay, there's some
yellow here and over here some green and shiny and red and over here we have something that's
vertical and it's a table or whatever.
It doesn't do that willy-nilly.
It knows it's only got two thirds of a page to express some really critical data and it
chooses those in an elegant manner in order to get as much quality, high value information
across to you in the short period of time as possible.
We know as professionals that if you exceed that two thirds mark nominally, the rest of
the data is going to be trash.
You can't hang in there that long and play that particular piece.
I know but that's when you say it feels it's actually what you're saying is you think the
next and that's thinking stop right there from experience we know that that that do
not exceed point everything after that it almost always AOL almost always imagination.
It's hung in there long enough.
Stage four, you know this is very, very slow.
Stage one, fast, produce an ideogram, one to two seconds.
Stage two is metronomic, clicks, textures, colors, smells, tastes, temperature, sounds,
dimensions.
Stage three, 15 seconds, a little bit slower.
Stage four slower yet.
It's three seconds per column and in the two thirds of a page you're talking about a couple
of minutes in stage four.
It's ample time especially with all those high level data for your creative imagination
to say it's got a virtual cornucopia of stuff to knit together and say I know what this
is so we stop it, we pull the plug on it.
That first stage three sketch is critical.
If you blow that you have to abort the session and start all over again.
You cannot employ your mind in that three hand sketch.
Having said that, it should be fairly neat, try to keep it neat, commit, get the symbol
down whatever it may be and let it flow.
It's a very, very different animal than your analytical sketches which now require you
to select and to replace lines and dimensions on the paper.
The answer to the question is always somewhere symbolically in the first stage three sketch,
the free hand sketch.
It's always there.
It may not be in your face.
We know that our mind breaks up archetype so if we've got a volcano as part of the solution
to a problem, mind will unfortunately take the circular crater, put that over here and
then the mountain over here.
Having said that however, the answer to the question is still somewhere in that sketch
presented.
When that comes back together the right way, when the puzzle pieces are reconnected in
the side template, there is a diagram, a schematic diagram, a blueprint for all the essential
elements of information that make up the problem and the solution and that diagram, the blueprint
is usually enough to solve the problem and say, oh, this is what's going on, the hip
bones connected to the leg bone, that kind of thing and here it is, that's the answer
to the question.
You'll see that in many, many problems.
What brought down TWA Flight 800?
What's broken on this?
You usually don't need to do a full blown drawing to solve that problem.
You can, but it's overkill.
If you need more than a couple of sessions to solve a problem, you may be dealing with
something big and that will turn into a project.
By definition, by connotation X, X from the top of X, don't use the word target.
The only time that we use target from the top of the target, inside the target, those
kind of things, the only time we use the word in a movement is when the site and the target
are synonymous.
When the site and X are synonymous, hey Ed, I've only got one thing here in my first
freehand sketch, X.
There's no A's or B's, there's no context or anything else, it's just an X, which happens.
Under those circumstances, you can drop the X and just call everything the target because
it's just one thing there from the top of the target, something should be perceivable.
Any other time, you have to use those square brackets which connotate a key site aspect,
X as the key site number one, site aspect, A is the next one, the penultimate important
one.
On the top of aspect A, you don't have to write the word aspect because it's implied
by the square brackets.
After you hit the site template and you go on to explore some of the elements, element
one, element two, you don't have to worry element either, it's implied by the square
brackets.
The strategy that your unconscious has to solve the problem, you can't monkey with.
You have no idea where you're going and how your unconscious is going to take you to the
finished site template, which is worth its weight in gold in our work.
So jump off point for everything else that we do.
You construct a building from its blueprint, these are the blueprints.
We have that, we have everything we need to get as much information as we want about the
target, cure for AIDS, you deem it.
That first site template has all of the zip files we need to solve the problem.
Where you go from the site template is now your conscious awareness pops in.
You can consciously select your own strategy.
Whatever is there in diagrammatic form in the site template, you can choose to investigate
and now unconscious has done what it had to get you to the blueprint.
You can turn your conscious attention to any element in the site template now and explore
it in turn.
It's your strategy now.
Do not go back up at any time, when we produce an ideogram, whether it's the first ideogram,
which is a Gestalt for all, everything contained at the site, kind of a big thought ball for
all the elements at the site.
Whether it's that ideogram or it's an ideogram that's associated with one of the key aspects.
Don't go back up and touch it with your pen to try to grab stage twos.
Watch what happens if you touch that ideogram.
If the ideogram is like a zip file, right, okay, and I go back up and touch that, I've
only touched one paragraph in the zip file and I'm pulling out the sensory impressions
and I'm hearing with that point right there and I'm not getting, right.
It's just as if you have a stage three of some things like that and that's my X and
that's my A. If I go back up and I explore A and I touch that, whatever's right there.
Let's say A is this board right here, this dry erase board and I go back up through a
lens darkling and I touch right here, right there, I pick up shiny and gun metal gray
and reflective, I've skewed the results.
I've disallowed my unconscious from taking its strategy and getting me to know what this
is by picking parts of it, rectangular, upright, vertical, slick, white, okay, that's what
unconscious will do.
If I hold my pen here and I keep going back and touching that, I'm only going to get that
part.
That's what literally happens when you touch that ideogram.
By virtue, by dent of your labor, by doing that, it's a burst transmission and everything
you need to know is front loader right there.
You got it.
You're sitting on it.
You know that there's white there.
You know that there's yellow there.
You know this.
You know that.
You don't have to go back up and do that because that's what you got by doing this right here.
You got a big zip file and you're opening it up here, not by going back up and recollecting
a piece of the zip file.
Don't go back up and touch the ideogram.
If there is motion inherent at the site in any of the aspects, whether it's the target
or any of the contextual elements, that needs to be expressed by a little arrowhead, remember?
An arrowhead, the direction of motion.
You have to decide as the viewer, as the individual viewer whether or not this line that you produced
in one of your sketches is the boundary of a curve thing or is actually describing motion
that's curved.
Or both.
If it's a roller coaster, you've got a fixed curve thing and something moving on top of
it, which is pretty hard to pull out once in a while, but unconscious will help you do
that.
You have to decide, gee, is that something moving this way or is it just something that's
there?
That's up to you, the viewer.
If there is motion inherent in that, by all means, put an arrowhead right there to depict
that.
It's important.
If there's an object that's in motion, like this, let's say there's a circular object
in motion, then depict the motion by an arrow somewhere.
Very, very important in our work, problem solving here.
The biggest problem that I see is, out of structure sessions, out of structure means
you've skipped a step, ignored one, or given short shrift to one, skipped an ideogram
which is a major error, or skipped a stage four.
If you don't do the stage fours, the viewer can still put together a site template, but
you won't have any labels.
You just have a diagram without any labels.
You can think of a blueprint without any labels.
It's just a bunch of symbols of things, you're not sure which is the bathroom door on the
building and which is the main entrance, you just have stuff.
You need stage fours.
That's where we solve a problem.
Speaking of stage fours, it's time to put the pedal to the metal on the T column, the
tangible column.
From these, put something in that T column, but not just anything.
I'll show you how to do something.
The T columns are empty, many of you have a ton of descriptive sensory impressions.
Colors and dimensions, the colors and dimension columns are loaded.
Well, what the heck is long, wide, flat, heavy, and dense?
What is that?
It's a thing.
Put your pen in the T column.
Well, I've got a thing, a thing, just put thing down.
What's the nature of the thing?
Well, it's an object, or it's a life form.
If you just have thing, that's fine also.
Go back to the S column, tell me more about the thing.
Well, it's also green and slick, and it's also kind of tall.
Then go back to the T column.
I think it's man-made.
That's not a T, that's an I, intangible idea, you can't touch man-made.
So man-made in the icon.
Go back to the T column again.
What kind of a man-made object?
Well, it's an object, or it's a structure.
Great, go back to the S column again.
It's also, well, wait, it's glassy and hollow and blah, blah, blah.
Any port in the storm, whenever you get an anchorhold, you can get an anchorhold on anything.
The first time you put an entry into the stage four S column, sensory impressions, five senses,
whatever that is, it belongs to something.
Your unconscious is processing the something.
It's got an aspect of it, but it belongs to something.
That something has a form, and usually forms appertain to objects.
So you've got something, hold on to it.
What's green and white?
What's low and slick?
Liquid, T, liquid, gas, whatever you got.
That goes in the T column there, too.
I'm not sure I understand how that's not thought process that strikes me as a logical, you know, I have A and B and C there for tangible.
Watch.
I can, I, okay.
Let's say this is my target.
Let's say this is aspect A.
Now I'm in stage four.
I've explored, I've explored it already.
I've done an analytical sketch.
My analytical sketch may look like this.
Okay.
That's my analytical sketch of aspect A.
I don't know, it's an overhead projector.
Because, Eric, go the term, remote viewing.
Okay, we're in stage four now.
Now your unconscious is delivering up information to you.
It needs a venue.
You provide that by putting your pen in the S column first.
Five senses.
Okay?
And unconscious says, I've got something that's brown and glassy, right?
And it's also bulky and heavy.
Now you know those things.
All you have to do is put your pen in the T column now and it will provide, it's done
at the pre-conscious level by virtue of you putting the pen in the S column and the D column
and capturing enough of that data at the pre-conscious level just before the data crosses the liminal
gate up in the conscious awareness.
There's some sorting and sifting going on.
There is analysis going on and your conscious awareness is looking for labels at the pre-conscious
level.
You're looking for labels and it'll find something.
If you put your pen in the T column, thing, I got a thing.
Instead of air or trees or whatever, you don't have leafy and all of that.
You got a thing.
All you have to do is put your pen in the T column.
Do you know why it works?
Because at the pre-conscious level, there is analysis going on all the time.
The analysis took, consciously, it is verboten for you to take the brown and the glassy and
the heavy and the thick and do anything with it.
You're not allowed to think.
But cranking away at the pre-conscious level, your mind is looking for a label and it finds
something, thing, object.
It is an object or a structure.
If you put your pen in the T column, that will drop out of the outbox into the T. What
your problem is, you're actually thinking.
You're actually thinking, you put your pen there and the thinking is getting in the way.
Once it starts flowing, it will happen.
The I column and the T column are the last column, are the last places, venues for information
collection that the viewer will find, will be able to be facile with.
So it is a fight.
And then you have to say, well, gee, how do I know this isn't a H-O-L?
You don't.
Not yet.
Yeah.
But it will kick in.
The purpose of this first session for me as a teacher is to make sure that you're in
structure, that you're staying in structure.
Your job is not to worry about what the target is until we end this session and we talk about
analysis.
We'll do that together.
And when I'm sure that everybody's back on track, then we'll tackle a more difficult,
not just as sexy a target, just as interesting a target, OK?
I'm glad you're all here.
It's really nice to see you back.
This is, as you teach more and more skilled people, you can have more and more fun.
It's like any other skill.
If I decide to change the task and say, well, that's not really what I want.
I have to change the target reference numbers, too, because they now become ingrained in
my mind as the task master with the task.
When you're your own task master, if you decide to put some TRNs down for, let's say, your
friend's illness to diagnose a treatment for your friend's illness, and then all of a sudden
you say, you know what, I want to go back and look at the source of the illness first.
You can't use those same TRNs because then you just use them to point to the treatment.
Now you have to gen up a set of TRNs to point to the origin, different set of numbers.
So you guys are going to have to actually solve the problem.
It is soluble or I wouldn't give it to you as a first project.
Don't worry too much about solving it, but go to work, do a good job.
I'm going to be looking at your structure.
You are about to begin target one on the RV4 DVD.
At this point in your RV training, you should have memorized the word descriptor list and
the remote viewing session flow chart.
You should not be using anything within your RV sessions besides a small stack of blank
white bond paper and a black pen.
If you feel that you may require additional practice or review to become more comfortable
with executing sessions in this manner, please feel free to review previous Learn RV DVDs
or to conduct additional practice sessions.
Your first target is an enigma.
I will now read the target reference numbers that Major Dames provided to the workshop
students.
After you obtain the target reference numbers, pause your DVD player and begin the session.
The target reference numbers for target one are 86394472.
Let's continue.
Please have your first completed session in front of you before you watch the target feedback.
If you did not yet remote view the first target, stop here, go back, and do it now before proceeding.
The Navy for many years had a bunch of hydrophones under the water, war-wide, secret stuff, and
they became obsolete because of a new technology, and so they turned over these hydrophone arrays
to the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration.
The science community is pretty much aware of all of the sonograms and what they stand
for, what makes this and what makes that.
This is a blue whale, this is a sperm whale, this is a tanker, this is a speedboat, this
is an underwater explosion.
They all have specific sonograms, voice prints, if you will, which are known from this worldwide
array of hydrophones.
But there are a few, as you can see, look, this is underwater volcano, underwater volcano,
different species of whales and different water zones, and even though the water is different
in temperatures and you would imagine that you have different sonograms, they're still
close enough that you can recognize each of the species of whales.
These are known.
There are, however, some enigma.
Here's some unidentified sounds here from this acoustic array that NOAA now controls
and possesses, and names are given to the sonograms based upon what they sound like
to the scientists.
They just slap on a name here, upsweep, whistle, slow down, train, Julia, and bloop.
The scientific community does not know the origin of these sounds.
So I chose one of those enigma, this one, what they call the bloop, right?
That's the one that I chose as targeting material.
And as target reference material, I used the sonogram itself.
So this became, for us, target reference material.
Now, just as we're all want to do, we look at this enigma and we say, gee, it looks
like this and it could be that, and scientists discuss it.
And they come up with some postulates, maybe later some working hypotheses, but really
just postulates right now about what this may be.
And they think, the majority thinks that it's mostly what.
They're thinking, well, it's an awful big sound, and it sounds like something that's
close to natural frequency, naturally occurring sounds, that is, animals.
Maybe it's a giant squid, because we know there's these big squid in the ocean.
We just don't have a lot of experience finding them, and they're hard to find.
They're very elusive and very big, whereas the people that know cephalopods, the zoologists
that are in the cephalopods said, well, you know what?
We don't see how they can be, because there's no airspace in the cephalopod, one of which
is a giant squid.
You make a sound like that, like there is in a whale, for instance, big airspace, a
sinus cavity.
So there's nothing that can make a big boom like this that would travel thousands of miles
on the water, and it does.
So how do I find out, using our techniques and methods, which work, what that is?
Is that just an error in the central processing unit, wherever the fusion center for sonograms
is at NOAA?
Maybe something went wrong with the equipment, and that's a spurious signal or something
like that.
How do we find out what the heck that really is?
This is how we do it.
What would we use, what aspect here?
You guys really don't know this.
I'm going to show you what to use, and then you'll see the range of cues that we can have.
What do we want to know about that?
Do we want to know its source, the source of that sonogram?
What's the source of the sonogram?
What made this is a piece of equipment, so we don't want to turn our attention to the
source.
It's like, oh gee, what I really wanted was the what?
The origin.
The origin, not the cause, but the origin.
We want to know what the origin, see that word right there?
Origin?
Yeah.
So that's what I used for targeting material, the origin.
So when I gave that to you, the TRNs, the target reference numbers, became the pointer
that pointed to this, this idea, the origin of that, and that's what you were remote viewing.
So it becomes interesting in your site templates now, we want to turn our attention to what?
What was X?
Let's take a general broad look at what X was here, because that's our target.
The rest of the stuff, some of you probably got water or liquid or something like that.
That's context.
But what is X in your site template?
Okay, so you're saying it's man-made, the origin man-made.
Anybody else agree with that?
Yes?
Why?
Your data better support that.
What are we looking for first?
Your summary data, your summary data.
Just the facts, ma'am.
What's the summary?
You collate your data.
At the site, at the site, the site is a structure or structures on land or whatever in water.
Some of you may, again, it's very difficult for new viewers to pick up water.
The site is a structure.
At the site is motion.
The motion is this, that, or whatever.
At the site are objects.
The objects are, blah, blah, black, brown, shiny, or whatever.
That's how we collate and describe the site.
Those words may only be taken from your data.
That's it.
Then after the summary is written, articulated, then you can jump to analysis and your analysis
is intelligent guesses.
Intelligence because you use your summary data, not some wild-ass guess.
You use your summary data and say, hmm, what might this be in my knowledge base?
He's got things in his idea template, but the X is a box.
It's a cube, and out from the cube is common stuff.
That's not a life form, as we know it, unless there's cube people out there somewhere.
It's an artificial thing.
That eliminates, there goes the CNN hypothesis, and it's not a giant squid.
That's very helpful to science because we can use remote viewing to cross Q, as we used
to say in the intelligence business.
We can use it to point satellites this way.
This way, or spies go over here.
We can use remote viewing to direct other systems and save lots of money and time.
You put a one on whatever you're interested in, and you go hit it again.
From the top of element one, something should be visible.
You get a lot of data on that, descriptive data, and then we do another analytical sketch,
and we go from the analytical sketch to a drawing.
By this time, you have enough time on target, you have enough connection with the target,
you've spent so much time, that you actually can take a separate sheet of paper and begin
to line up to pen and ink, whatever that is, whatever it looks like.
Do we have an answer for the question, what is the origin?
Have we eliminated anything?
Yeah, we have.
That's a good start.
We've eliminated at least the idea that we're dealing with an animal, or a life form as
the origin, okay?
Because everybody's got right angle structures as X.
He actually said it's like a big bell that gives off energy, like that.
Well, that signal is heard thousands of miles, thousands of kilometers away from a source
where the hydrophones are not near 50 degrees south, 100 degrees west.
These hydrophones are across the ocean somewhere else.
That's a lot of energy that that's putting out, a whole lot of energy.
His analysis, one of them, one of the apostles was a big bell putting out a burst of energy.
Let's keep the pace going.
Instead of Major Dames conducting a target preface, we're going to jump right into target
two.
This is the second and final target that you will execute along with the class on this
DVD.
This second target is another Enigma target.
I will now read the target reference numbers that Major Dames provided to the workshop
students.
After you obtain the target reference numbers, pause your DVD player and begin the session.
The target reference numbers for the second target are 5, 8, 3, 3, 2, 7, 7, 4.
Let's continue.
Please have your second completed session in front of you before you watch the target
feedback.
If you did not yet remote view the second target, stop here, go back and do it now before proceeding.
This is an ice circle.
These pop up here and there sporadically.
Very thin ice.
You can't walk on this without breaking through.
They're actually cut into the ice.
They're chiseled by something which appears to be an instrument.
Those are ice shavings around there, actual ice shavings.
What did that?
It's an Enigma.
They're field investigators and they're scientists and they pay a lot of money to do laboratory
analysis, some of the best labs in the country or overseas if they have to, could not come
up with a conclusion about what made this other than it looked like it was cut into
the ice.
That's it.
Their best investigators could not solve this problem.
They had no idea what made that circle.
Enigma because one of the beauties of remote viewing is that not only can it provide pieces
of the puzzle that are crucial for the solution of a puzzle, but it can sometimes provide
the first piece.
Do we want to know what that is?
Do we want to know what that is?
No.
We don't want to know what it is.
We know what it is.
It's a circle in the ice.
What do we want to know?
What's the question?
Source.
Yes.
We want to know the source.
So we have to set it up as a cube.
So that picture becomes target reference material.
I chose as target reference material the top picture, the top photo, because I don't
want a person in the photograph.
That just mucks it up.
Here we have a nice, clean photo right there, the top one.
Nice and clean.
No people, nothing in it.
And I can draw an arrow, which I did, on the target reference material.
I drew, I'm not an arrow, but a line from there out here.
And over there I put these words.
What do I call that as a target?
What should I call it?
What?
Ice circle.
Ice circle.
Yeah.
I could do that.
Why name it at all?
I've got a pointer right at it.
Just call it a target.
Target.
I assign a couple of target reference numbers, which we did over here.
5, 7, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 4.
That's my target.
That's not good enough, right?
I don't want to spend 45 minutes describing ice.
I want to know the source.
So we qualified this with source.
Now this becomes our target.
And this whole thing is what?
A cue.
This is our cue.
Target 5, 7, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 4 slash source.
There.
But now how do I give that to you completely blind?
Because if you walk in here and I say, okay, I want you to write on top of your favorite
target 5, 7, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 4 slash source, that's still not clean.
You're still armed with something here that may trigger your imagination.
So what we do is we take this cue and we assign it a target reference number, right?
So now it's perfectly clean.
We use another pointer to point to this pointer.
And we assign 5, 8, 3, 3, 2, 7, 7, 4.
These become our target reference numbers for this cue here.
Now that you know what the question is, what caused the circle?
Is it an animal?
Is it air?
A natural phenomenon?
You have a structure in the air.
Cutting.
Did you actually use cutting?
That's what I thought.
Broken by air.
Oh, neat.
Okay.
Anybody else back there?
How about up here?
We need a consensus on this stuff.
We have to have, as an analyst, you guys need to look for common elements.
You've got some common elements here.
You've got something.
We don't know what's emitting, necessarily, although I think two individuals said structure.
But we've got something coming into the target that we've got lines.
We've got something moving.
Two people said energy.
The emitter is a structure, all right?
We're not making it dry into conclusions now, other than what we did with the Bloop thing,
that looks like we're not dealing with a natural phenomenon necessarily, or, well, that's what
we know right now.
We're not dealing with a natural phenomenon.
It looks like we do have something, a causal agency, that's not natural.
That's a first shot there, too.
If that's the case, then we can set up another cue.
So we take that, and the real fun begins now, folks.
We're not going to do this right now for reasons that I'll get into momentarily, but we got
this thing up there, let's say, his session, and you'll say, hmm, that's interesting.
I got this or whatever.
This is my element one.
We could explore that, or now that we have our teeth into something, we can say the origin
of element one should be perceivable.
What's the origin of that?
That would be neat.
If it's a bird, it goes back to its nest.
If it's a Marine Corps helicopter on a special secret laser mission, it goes back to its
hangar.
We catch a hangar with a bunch of people refueling, and that kind of stuff like that, we do whatever
is necessary.
Or if it's something else, we sketch something else.
You have completed the active sessions on this DVD.
Now sit back and relax as you watch the Level 4 workshop class students execute the two
final advanced targets.
First, they will execute an open search, which simply consists of the cue, open search.
An open search is the most difficult target class since the viewer does not even know
the question.
Experience has shown that running this cue almost always provides a newsworthy event that
will take place in the near future, usually within the next two to eight weeks.
The second and final target is an optimal near-term investment.
This cue will provide the class with the current most profitable investment for the near-term.
From experience, we know that the matrix interprets the phrase near-term to be the immediate two
to four week period.
You may feel free to run these two separate cues on your own or with an RV team.
But remember, these cues produce future newsworthy events and the current optimal investment.
Naturally, these future events change all the time, so your results will be different
than that obtained by the class each time you run the cues.
If you would like to work with other remote viewers like yourself on these targets and
countless others, join the RV community free at www.learnrv.com.
On March 11, 2004, a terrorist attack was carried out on innocent civilians in Madrid,
Spain.
This horrific act took the lives of an estimated 200 individuals, with over an additional 1,000
more wounded.
Five weeks earlier, on February 29, 2004, Major Ed Dames and the Level 4 workshop students
conducted an open-search remote viewing session.
This session accurately predicted the soon-to-take-place event in Madrid.
Major Dames and the RV4 workshop class have executed an open-search remote viewing target.
Since an open-search usually provides a newsworthy event in the near future, the class must now
determine what the event is based on the RV data.
The near future event could consist of anything.
Analysis of the RV data for this type of target is extremely difficult and usually requires
many sessions to conclusively determine the future event.
Obviously, most of the time it's going to be a place, most of the time there are exceptions.
We have a place and is anything happening there or is it just the place?
Have you just dropped into a table or a house or a gopher hole somewhere?
Yes or no?
Something's going on?
Does something seem significant or does it seem insignificant?
We have a class of target that's an event.
In the future, in the past, present, do we know?
You don't know.
There's no way to know.
At this juncture, mine's outside of time.
There's no way to know whether this is past, present, or future.
From experience, I can tell you that what falls out of an open-search is it seems to
meet a certain criterion, but there really is no way to be sure where we are in time
remoping.
You see what I mean about solving for the unknowns?
The who, what, when, where, how, and why?
When we have a question, you know, where is Mr. X or who done it or what's broken on
my car, we've got some, we've got some known, some givens and we're solving, it's much
easier to solve for an unknown.
Here everything is unknown, including the when, present time.
You see when we qualify a search term with a temporal qualifier, present or now or next
or past or future, we build in, we build in the time, the window into the queue.
Here we don't know where we are in time, so we don't know that yet.
In the past when we've used open-search, it usually drops down something that is an event
and it's going to happen, it's a newsworthy event that will happen within the next two
weeks to two months.
It's usually something significant, but it may not be, even though it's newsworthy,
the news may not pick it up because it might be secret, a secret attack somewhere by someone,
actually a coup d'etat or something like that.
So we don't know how far away we are in time from the present.
What's happening here?
What do we got?
What's the scenario then?
What kind of an event is this?
What were your AIs?
Good, bad or indifferent?
If you were here, if you were actually at that event, what would your emotions be?
What's the aesthetic impact?
Is it a place you would want to be that's interesting?
What?
Positive or negative?
We'll start there.
Negative in what regard?
What were the actual words that you used to describe your emotions?
These are V, the event.
Now, anger and yelling are not...
Anger and yelling is not an emotion.
Yelling is an intangible idea or it could be in the S column on the audibles, one of
the five senses.
So yelling is not an emotion.
So we've got some highly negative AIs here.
We have a negative situation predominantly.
Now, we've got that, so we know that something's going down that's not necessarily positive.
Where are we in terms of geography?
Down to the nitty-gritty, the I column.
What kind of intangible ideas?
One word, if it's correct, we don't know what the correct words are here, but let's
say that the I's were correct words, the intangible ideas are worth their weight in gold because
they could say, hey, it's this, this, this, this, or this.
Very, very descriptive, high-level terms.
What kind of intangible ideas do we have?
Business-like and organized.
Okay, well, the business-like and organized are intangibles, but the hateful and arrogant
are EIs.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Okay, so confrontation, confrontational type of situation, is that what we have?
It's a lot of tension, because there's a lot of fear and a lot of tension.
Fear and tension.
Okay, so what's the extent of the, I mean, okay, now, how about motion?
What kind of motion is going on here?
Do we have bullets flying, fists flying, words flying, bombs, microwaves, anything else
like that?
Do we have motion here at the site?
We do.
What's the nature of the motion?
Is it just people in motion?
Or is it other things?
Running.
Running?
I have a tube and I have people in it too, and they seem relieved and content and they're
disoriented and anxious, but in a certain way, but then there's a, I have a motion above
that, it's going all in one direction, and I have to feel like there's some evacuation,
and most people are very anxious, very...
So you've got people inside something and possibly below, and they're sitting out whatever's
standing above, out of a structure towards what? Out?
And what were their feelings? Happy?
Intolerant and impatient. Intolerant and impatient.
Okay, anybody else want to take a swag here?
Yes, sir? I didn't get an explosion of fire.
Explosion of fire, that's in your site template?
Alright. The person that commits the act is very professional in business life.
What should we do next to find out more about what we've got in times and time and space?
Let me walk you through a little step here. Take out a separate sheet of paper and write S6 at the top
and put a number on it, the next number in your session, whatever the number the IT was,
make this the next number, one up, okay?
After the S6, to the right of the S6, right, location flag.
Drop down a couple of inches and draw a rectangle that looks like a flag.
Doesn't have to be big, it's small folks, a small rectangle that's going to do this about three times on the same page.
And go in here, very carefully listen to me now and pen and ink any symbols that may be on that flag for the location.
Let your hand pen and ink any symbols in the flag.
Don't get your mind involved, your hand has to do this.
Don't get your mind involved, there's no thinking here.
Pen and ink the symbol, pen and ink the symbol, your hand has to do this, not your brain.
Your brain has to shift to your hand, your hand has a brain all its own now.
Pen and ink the symbol in the flag.
Drop down another two inches, draw another rectangle.
You cannot do this without having at least 40 minutes in session.
Some of you won't listen to what I just said and you'll try to take shortcuts in the future and your work will be trash.
It will be junk, it will be meaningless.
After 40 minutes in session, this can be done and it's pretty accurate.
We're looking for the symbol, alright?
We're not looking for the color.
Colors don't come out well.
Sometimes you'll perceive a light color as yellow, pink, orange.
Don't go with the colors, only the symbols.
As Carl Jung knew, symbols very powerful and the collective unconscious.
Easy to pull out.
Symbols for corporations.
Symbols on patches, military patches.
All doable if you're really connected with the signal.
And the more detailed you get, the easier it is to identify.
Ed Dames has now instructed the class to conduct another movement on the target site to find the nearest significant feature.
The nearest significant feature, yeah, because most hold you on the site and there may not be a significant feature that you'd be able to find there.
Whereas nearest releases unconscious ghosts to go fetch whatever the nearest significant feature would be.
Do we have something that's tall?
Now, okay, here we go.
We've got our teeth in and something.
We have a tall structure, a man-made tall structure, okay?
Ordinarily this would sew up, but this is a significant feature.
So we really want to know where we're dealing with.
Okay, what's the other data about this tall structure?
Is it a monument or does it have a function?
Like, for instance, is it a rocket launch pad or what?
We're going to look back at the structure.
We're going to gain some more perspective and some dimensionality of the structure.
Then we're going to draw it.
We're going to use a pen and ink drawing on a separate page and draw the structure.
We're not going to draw it as a symbol.
We're going to actually do it as a drawing, all right?
So this is what we'll do.
We'll do one more movement that I'll give you.
That will produce another ideogram from blah, blah, blah, blah.
Something should be visible.
Now, they'll produce an ideogram.
You'll get some more stage twos, some more dimensions,
and you will do an analytical sketch based on those dimensions.
When we execute target geometries, we don't go into stage four.
There's no need to do stage fours.
We only want to know what something looks like.
It's shape.
So we skip all the stage fours.
So you're only going to do one movement.
Here's the one I'll give you.
Write this down, but don't actually produce the ideogram yet.
From 100 meters west of the nearest significant feature,
we won't say target because there's too many targets implied here,
something should be visible.
From 100 meters west of the nearest significant feature,
something should be perceivable.
What does it actually do in terms of idea?
It takes us about 300 feet to the west,
looking back to the east at whatever that is.
So the dimensions that you get now are very, very important
because those are the ideas of what the size and shape of this thing
from that perspective.
These dimensions are critical now.
After you go through all the stage twos and you have the dimensions,
jump into an analytical sketch.
The analytical sketch will be the way this looks,
looking back to the west from 100 meters away.
And then after you do the sketch,
grab another sheet of paper and write S6 on it and draw this thing.
Draw it.
Don't be afraid of making a mistake.
This is an exercise too.
It's still a classroom environment.
Draw whatever this is.
Major Dames has informed the class to conduct yet another session
associated with the event.
This time, the cue involves finding the target geometry
of the nearest significant feature.
And look, the person didn't finish the top here.
They're very, very interesting.
See, who's this?
There's no, there's no, it's just...
Yeah, you see, the top wasn't finished, right?
In our work at that, here we go again.
They're just, they're, they equivocated about the top here
and wanted to put a peak, but they kind of didn't.
This is really...
What is important here is that we've got some,
we're looking for uniqueness.
That's going to make it easier for us to locate this on the internet
as a photograph unless somebody recognizes it right off the bat.
We've got a tall diagonal structure.
And look at what people are doing.
They're truncating the top.
Oh, so it's a big office building with all kinds of offices.
That kind of...
Is that, is that anybody else got that congruent?
Yes.
Sweet.
Suits.
Suits.
Okay.
Do we have, do we have men in suits?
Any other, any other ideas?
Could it be an office building?
If it is, it's pretty unique, but easy because it's a significant feature.
It'll be something that your unconscious gives you
that you can easily find on the internet or in a magazine
or that you, you recognize immediately.
Big Ben in London, Hyatt Regency, whatever.
Something like that.
It wouldn't be hard to find.
Because it's a significant feature.
And your unconscious is your best friend.
So it gave you something that you would recognize
rather than the office building down here
in some homogeneous environment.
Do you see where we're going with this?
The more, this is why, you see how much work this is.
That's one of the points I want to make here.
That we're trying to, as soon as the site template is through,
the rest of the strategies are yours.
You don't have any choice on getting to the target.
Once that site template is constructed,
any strategy you choose is yours.
Choose wisely because this is so much work.
And all the movement exercises are a lot of work too.
But you're going to get closer and closer and closer to whatever you want.
It's just going to be a lot of work.
The near future, by the way.
Because what I haven't told you and I didn't want to overlay you
is that the results of an open search
are usually within the next two weeks.
And they usually are newsworthy
and about 75%, 80% of the time, they do make the news.
The other times are secret.
A secret cabal somewhere in Chile or whatever.
That's significant.
The matrix knows, but CNN doesn't.
This is usually what pops out out of that search term, open search.
There's something that's over the horizon that's newsworthy.
Why that is, I do not know.
I don't know why open search produces that type, that class of data.
But it's great for educational purposes.
Because you start from scratch
and you've got to do all this work to find out where the heck you are.
Let's take a look at the data provided by the RV class.
Most students receive the following data in their sessions
and have agreed that this data accurately portrays what was then the upcoming event.
Highly negative emotions at the site.
Fear, terror, anger, hatred.
A student indicates that he sketched a tube under the city
with people moving in boxes inside it,
which appears to be a subway or rail system.
Another student indicated the individuals conducting the act
were business-like and organized.
Evacuation was taking place with an explosion and fire.
People were mostly running in a single direction.
They were impatient and intolerant.
The region's flag symbol in which the event would take place
appeared to be Spain.
The nearest unique feature was identified as a possible skyscraper office building
with a unique diagonal structure with a flat top,
possibly the towers of Madrid.
Though the Level 4 workshop class provided some compelling data,
it is still difficult for new remote viewers to determine these types of events
without more practice and expertise.
Professional viewers with appropriate follow-up sessions
would have no difficulty isolating the event in place.
Let's move on to the next and final target.
The Optimal Near Term Investment Session
The class will now execute an Optimal Near Term Investment Session.
The data from this session will provide the most optimal stock, company, or product
that one can invest in for the highest short-term profits.
Remember, if you wished to execute this queue
to find the next Optimal Near Term Investment for yourself,
please ensure that you are trained enough to obtain accurate results.
RV can consistently be up to 80% accurate.
However, this is for experienced remote viewers.
We suggest that you conduct many dozen practice RV sessions
to be sure that your skill level is capable of providing
consistently correct feedback for this type of target.
Also remember that an Optimal Near Term Investment changes frequently
since there can only be one at any given point in time.
Therefore, the Optimal Near Term Investment that the Level 4 class obtained
has already changed many times since the taping of the class.
Though we do not promote the use of remote viewing for profit,
this is yet another example how remote viewing can answer any question you have
no matter the subject or the goal.
I think a suggestion for our next target would be
Optimal Near Term Investment.
Now you could append it with your, the reason I like to do it
without prefixing it with your own name
is because everybody will come up with the same investment which is optimum.
That may not mean that you have the resources to buy into it,
but it will still be the best, collective will say,
oh, glad you asked, this is it.
It's an easy target, it's so easy, but it's still an unknown, right?
I'm not going to front load you with possibility with what it might be
because it might not be any of those at this juncture.
But I think it would be a good target because it's so easy to analyze.
Investment is adjudicated by the matrix as money.
We know that as opposed to treasure.
Treasure is not necessarily gold, silver or whatever.
That could be a book somewhere, knowledge that you need to know,
that kind of thing, a treasure.
I'll gin up a target reference numbers in the queue
and we'll look at from this point in time,
optimum near term investment and see what the matrix drops down.
Whatever that will be, will be the same thing.
Matrix will say, okay, on the cross level, this is the optimum near term investment.
It could be llamas or a llama farm, we don't know.
So on this particular queue, there can only be one.
This is the nice thing about this.
Optimum is a superlative, the most, the best, the next.
It's a superlative, actually next isn't a superlative,
but optimum and most largest earth, Jurassic earth,
largest land dwelling creature.
It can only be one.
Now you may pick it up in different stages of its development,
but it's going to be the same one.
Everybody will get the same one.
So optimum near term investment, optimum means the optimum.
There's only going to be one.
So those of you who get something other than what everybody else gets, you're wrong.
I got to tell you that up front.
If you are the, if you're picking up something as an individual viewer,
that is not what the consensus has, then you screwed up.
Now don't put your name, just put optimum.
If you put your name, it will probably not be what everybody else gets more than likely and won't be.
Optimum near term investment for you, for instance,
might be the house that's down the street that's up for sale.
And the best investment for you would be that because it's available to you,
and someone's going to give you a good price and you can turn around and resell it right away.
Whereas that's, but that's if you put your name as a prefix.
Here, it's just, it's global in nature.
So easy target guys, if you stay in structure,
keep your mind out of this and you'll have the right answer.
No thinking allowed here.
Just click, click, click, click, click.
Don't, don't, don't get one stage two term and say, oh, look at that.
It must be, don't do it.
Just keep on trucking and you'll get it right.
You won't know what it is until the idea template.
You won't know what this is until you finish the idea template.
Anything prior to that is going to be the wrong answer.
Any conclusion that you draw prior to the construction of a site template
is going to be the wrong one.
You've got to go all the way from me.
You've got to go all the way on this.
Analysis will be easy, however, on this one.
The class is now executing the optimal near-term investment session.
How many of you have got a big circular thing?
Just one big circular thing, raise your hands.
Dr. Wallace, you had a face on a circular thing, correct?
What is that, pottery?
What is it?
It's a logo.
So what, in your guess, it's a logo, okay?
It might be something else.
Those are, the rest of you who got circular things,
what did you get, Marilyn?
What was yours?
It looks like a mountain range.
It looks like a mountain range, too.
But you know what?
I could take your sketch, Marilyn, and I could show your stage six
to somebody and say, do you know what this is?
And they would all say the same thing, yes.
But you don't.
You know why?
You're bilocating.
You're so close.
Your nose is so close to the grindstone.
You can't see the forest for the trees,
because this act of remote viewing is not an analytical act.
You did exactly what you were told to do.
You stayed in structure and you sketched whatever it was,
which was the answer to that question.
But analysis, what I'm asking to do now, which is not fair,
because you're still in a right brain mode, right?
Analysis is left brain, which reinforces the idea
that we talked about in level one and two workshop.
Don't try to analyze your work as soon as you finish it.
But it's funny the way this is, because if I showed anybody
a couple of sketches in here, like Marilyn's, for instance,
as an example, they would say, oh, that's a, but you can't see it.
Is that, is that clear?
So that's a coin, Marilyn.
That's a coin.
Dr. Wallace, that's a coin with a face on it.
It's a coin and that face that you have on it
is the face on a coin, that kind of thing there, too.
So I kind of lied to you when I said everybody
would get the same thing.
Generally speaking, there's a number of different variations
on the theme of optimum, but not that many.
So generally, you could, I would suggest that you get up
and walk around and look at your fellows,
your classmates' work, and come to a consensus
about what may be the optimum investment,
at least from this point in time near term.
Some of you in your face coins.
Now, the coins are interesting.
You could identify exactly what coins.
Are they just, what color is your coin, Dr. Wallace?
Huh?
Yellow.
Yellow.
What color is your, is your coin, if that's a coin, Marilyn,
and you didn't know that, anybody else would by looking at it.
What color is that?
Gold.
It's apparent that the class has obtained the metal gold
as the optimal near term investment.
As displayed in this chart, gold moved from $399 per ounce
to a high of $419 per ounce for the four weeks
following the execution of the optimal near term investment
Q used in the class.
Investors of this commodity received a 300% return
over margin in the futures market over that time period,
thereby making it truly the most optimal near term investment
within the stock and futures market during that time frame.
Remember though, as the market changes,
the optimal near term investment will change.
By running this Q daily, it's possible to always have your funds
in the optimal current investment.
When the answer changes, your current investment is no longer optimal
and should be placed in the new investment vehicle.
To personalize the Q, you will need to place your name in front of the Q.
Please note, though this Q is often used by professional remote viewers,
neither Ed Dames nor Cybercore Productions
promotes utilizing remote viewing for profit.
Congratulations! You have completed the Learn Remote Viewing DVD Set.
Completing this set has taught you all of the fundamentals
and skills necessary for continuing this training on your own
through executing your own blind and front loaded targets.
Even though you have completed the Learn RV DVD Set,
remember, you are still an inexperienced remote viewer.
Continue practicing on as many targets as you can
to continue to enhance your abilities.
Please do not allow remote viewing to interfere with your friends,
family, or place of employment.
As you have seen throughout this course,
RV requires a tremendous amount of dedication and rigor in order to master.
It is crucial that you follow the guidelines and structure
taught throughout the DVD course
and do not strafe in the process that you have been taught.
Remember that the structure presented in the RV course
is a result of over 20 years of research and testing.
Though some processes may be confusing or unexplained,
each phase of an RV session exists for a very important reason.
Finally, now that you're a more experienced remote viewer,
you're invited to register at the official
Major Ed Dames Remote Viewing Community Forums.
There you can chat with other remote viewers,
assign targets, trade target reference numbers,
or ask fellow remote viewers questions you may have.
Access the Remote Viewers Community online
at www.learnrv.com.
This is a free service provided by
all remote viewers and requires no obligations.
Good luck, remote viewer,
and thank you for finishing the Learn Remote Viewing DVD course.
I've been remote viewing for about three years.
I've just been able to do so much with it.
I've used it to find many of my lost things.
I've used it to find things for my family members.
I've used it to see future events that could affect my life,
could affect my family's life, just a myriad of things.
The most important thing and the most fun thing
that we've done with it is the lottery.
How many times have you won the lottery with RV?
Twice.
Oh, twice.
It's really exciting.
That's one of the most exciting things.
Copyright  2020 Mooji Media Ltd. All rights reserved
You
You
