somber kinda evil music
Technical remote viewing is a scientifically repeatable problem-solving process done by
a person to gain information about a specific target, a person, place, thing or event, anywhere
in time, past, present or future.
This tape is the PRV Intermediate Skills, that's what we're learning here today.
But I do want to review some of the basics.
What do I mean by the basics?
The basic is technical remote viewing is a skill.
It's not meant to be an experience, it's an attention management skill.
When we remote view, when we engage in a remote viewing session, about 45 minutes in duration,
we want to try to construct an environment that lends itself toward the remote viewing
process.
So try to find a place where you're not disturbed for about, can be not disturbed for 45 minutes.
There's something else that's important in a remote viewing session, and that is this.
There are things that we call physical inclementies.
Physical inclementies will slow down the remote viewing process.
If you're hungry, if you have to go to the bathroom, if you're overly tired, if you
have a bad cold, these are the kinds of conditions that we call physical inclementies, and they
will really affect your remote viewing session negatively.
Other things that will have a negative impact and perhaps shut you down completely in remote
viewing, particularly in the higher stages.
If you've had alcoholic beverages within the last 12 hours, alcohol in your system,
more than two drinks, you'll need 12 hours before you really can be effective in your
remote viewing session.
Marijuana, you'll need 30 days to clear your system if you've smoked marijuana.
Marijuana lends itself to defocus.
Marijuana will prevent you from focusing on a target.
We have found that people that smoke marijuana go into, enter a stream of consciousness in
stage four, and they lose the target.
They cannot focus on the target signal.
What do we mean by target signal?
We're capturing an impulse from the collective unconscious.
This impulse is felt first by our autonomic nervous system, and then the perception is
integrated in our bodies.
Later on in this course, you'll have a lecture on how the signal is integrated into our body,
our psyche, and how our psyche decides or judges the information and objectifies it in terms
of words or sketches.
When you work, you're going to work in a fairly sterile environment, a homogeneously
colored room, gray flat table, dull colored walls, no pictures of, you know, no velvets
of Elvis Presley or things I bought, purchased from Tijuana, those are in my house.
But they're not here, because that would distract you.
Subliminally, you'll pick those things up.
As a new student, you won't do it when you're trained, but as a new student, you'll pick
up subliminal things, accidentally integrate them into your remote viewing data.
We don't want to do that here.
One of the big ones is a revolving thing, a mechanical thing.
If you are attempting a remote view, particularly as a new student, and if you're tired, if
there's a dryer going on in your house anywhere, the motion of going around and around, you'll
find your hand on the paper going around and around in your sketch.
There aren't too many things like that.
I'll give you all the caveats, but that's what I mean about keeping the noise level
down.
We don't want to work you in a sterile environment totally.
We don't want to put you in a censored deprivation tank, an anechoic chamber, and things like
that, because if you're taught to remote view under those conditions, you won't be able
to come back out in the normal working world where you stop for lunch, clear your desk,
and decide to look for Atlantis or the Lost Dutchman Mine at lunch break.
You won't be able to do it, because the sounds of the normal, everyday sounds, the ambient
background noise will cause you to become upset and frustrated.
So we'll train in a normal office environment.
What we are doing in this intermediate module is extending our rudimentary skills beyond
what you learned in the introductory tape, and that was to distinguish between gross
geographical features, man-made cities, mountains, water bodies, and land bodies, to now look
at targets that are a person or people, a place, a specific place, a specific thing,
our group of things, and an event.
You'll be taught in this module how to accurately describe, at a distance, in time or space,
several places, things, and events to gain very accurate information about these.
Your job is to solve a problem, because that's what remote viewing is.
It's a problem-solving tool, very powerful problem-solving tool, and I'll teach you how
to use your unconscious, which I consider to be my best friend.
It's also a master problem solver.
It solves problems in a very elegant fashion, as long as we stay out of its way.
This is more of a mind-body process than it is a mind process.
In many stages in technical remote viewing, we use our bodies more than we do our minds.
We're not observing anything.
We're observers, but that is also a misnomer.
We're really perceivers, and in fact, remote viewing, as I've mentioned before, is really
a misnomer.
It should be remote perception, but for historical reasons, we've kept the term as remote viewing.
Remote viewing has a long, very interesting history, and we should not give short shrift
to that history.
Many people, giants in the field, have worked very hard to allow us to be where we are today.
That's why, as president of CITEC, I have not changed the terminology any more than
I had to.
I kept the historical terms, so remote viewing stuck.
For each of these classes or categories of targets, each has its own identity in the
collective unconscious.
It exists as a pattern of information.
That information is its identity.
Once again, we're not connecting with nor experiencing the actual target as it exists
in its material, physical form, somewhere in the universe, in time-space.
We're simply going into its identity as a pattern of information in the collective unconscious.
So it's some kind of a signature.
It is indeed.
It's a signature or a footprint that exists in all time and space.
Everything is lost in time and space.
No events are lost.
No information is lost.
It's all there in a very dynamic way, as you'll find.
This is not a static memory bank.
So although I'll refer to the matrix or the collective unconscious as a library, I don't
mean to suggest that it's a static field.
It is not.
The matrix is very dynamic indeed.
It learns as we learn, it can teach us, and we can teach it apparently.
The original model suggests the way that the discovery suggests was that there is this
collective unconscious.
I'll model it this way for now in a state-space sense.
I like to actually, personally, I like to think about it as a single dimension, just
a single dimension.
No time, no space, nothing.
Just everything is just right there.
All knowledge, all information is there.
Sort of like static RAM, a phonograph record, old photograph record, or a floppy disk.
The information is there, but you can't get it out unless you put some type of movement
through it, some kinesthetics to move it, spin it.
If you're dealing with optical storage, you have to send light or laser through it to
get the information patterns back out in a holographic sense.
If, let's say, you exist as a pattern of information in this matrix, then your physical
form, let's say your body, we've got you here when you're conceived and here when
you die, when your physical body dies, that's you, that's your lifespan.
So it's static from a distance.
If you stand back outside of space and time, mind is outside of space and time.
There's no time and space.
That can present some problems to us later on.
We can get around, but right now it's important to realize that mind's outside of space and
time.
When you remove you, if you're just given a blind target, as you'll see, you will not
know where you are in space nor where you are in time.
We have to take known things, standards that we're familiar with, conditioned standards,
and apply them to the data to bracket ourselves in time and space and say, aha, this is a
prairie in the northern hemisphere, planet Earth, 20th century.
It takes some tools to match up against that so that we know where we are because you don't
right away.
So there you are in space and time.
And if we remote view you down here in our linear environment, in our linear world where
time flows linearly, the question is, well, where do you want you?
Where do we want to remote view you?
Here at birth or somewhere in between?
Or do we want to look at that whole string right there, your whole life?
Has your MO changed since you've been a child?
Or is it still the same?
How do you view the world?
How do you think the world views you?
Those kinds of things.
Or do we want to look at the moment in your life, the most significant moment in your
life?
We can do that.
And that information resides in this matrix.
When we attack a particular point on that target, theoretically, there is a signal that's produced.
If we hold onto the signal, we call it a signal line, and in our model, we're decoding the
signal and we're extracting information from it.
Supposedly, information is modulated on the signal.
So our conscious attention is to this ritual, this TRV ritual, which you're going to learn,
which the collective understands.
Our intent is to do something.
The collective says, I recognize this ritual, I recognize what your intent is, I recognize
where your attention is.
Unconscious attention, which has a theory all its own, it's real, turns itself to the target.
The unconscious level, the target emanates a reflected signal.
We perceive the signal, decode it, and they extract information from it.
We, this tool, is a transducer.
We're transducing information that exists in the universe.
There are lots of information out there, lots of patterns of information.
We, our minds, are transducing this information, converting it into words, written words, sketches,
or the spoken word.
The information goes directly from our mind to our brain.
It appears as an idea first.
So the idea of red is there first, and then we may or may not respond to the idea of using
a visual memory.
We may say, we may be able to perceive the color red, but we, we, we receive it first
as an idea, and then perceive it using our body's sensorium, our tool.
So we're converting information, decoding it, and then perceiving it.
We're not perceiving first, we're receiving first the idea as information, and then the
perception, and then its objectification on the paper as a written word or a sketch.
That's what we're doing here.
So when we probe the ideogram, or a blind person touches the ideogram, essentially their
attention is turned to this specific area of focus right here, and a blind person will
know if they're very perceptive that this is black, not because they're feeling vibrations
or energy, but because their focus of attention is here, and they're picking up the idea
of the way this exists as a pattern of information and the information about it.
That information is going directly into their own mind, and then it's felt as a perception.
The technical remote viewing structure that you'll learn, that we began to learn in the
introductory module, is what keeps you on target.
It's what ensures that the information that you produce in terms of words and sketches
will be accurate, accurate and detailed.
Structure requires that you be highly attentive and alert.
This structure keeps our conscious mind busy so that it does not become involved in thinking
about the data as the stream of data enters our conscious mind.
We place each conscious thought connected with the target immediately on the paper in
terms of a word or a sketch.
We empty the hopper.
We adjudicate all the information and concepts that come into our mind as it comes in.
Once we attempt to interfere with this process, once we get thought process involved, if
we start as remote viewers thinking about the data, our imaginations will take the signal
away from us.
We will lose the target.
We'll lose access to the target information.
So in essence, don't get involved in thinking about the data.
Don't try to look at the meanings involved in the percepts that you're getting.
There's no thinking allowed.
We only want you to perceive.
Once your session is complete, of course you're going to have to think.
You'll put your thinking cap on, take your remote viewing hat off, and we'll ask you
to analyze your data.
Then we want you to think, but not during the process of remote viewing itself.
In fact, the way that we gain closer contact with a target is to turn our attention, ever
increasingly greater amounts of attention, to the task at hand.
That requires will and effort.
That's the kind of work that allows us to get closer to the target.
I like to compare it with working a math problem.
In fact, the more effort that we put into solving the problem, the more we become ensconced
or lost in the problem, and the closer we get to a solution many times.
It can be tiring times for remote view.
We'll need to take breaks.
I'll ask you to take a break at about 20 minutes into a 45-minute session.
Take a break for three or four minutes.
Stand up, stretch your legs, get the blood running again, forget about the target, come
back and resume in the way that I'll teach you to resume.
Breaks are necessary.
It is a tiring process.
It's best not to work more than twice a day.
Even I, as a professional, never work more than twice a day except in emergencies.
And if we work twice a day, we need to allow at least two hours between sessions.
Because in many ways, we're still connecting with a pattern of information that's associated
with our earlier target.
When we talk about summarizing your data and reworking the target, I'll say more about
it.
I'd like to talk to you about how we actually begin our session, how we
set up a target, and there's some new important things to learn, and that's
what we're going to do now. So these are your classes of targets. These are our
new classes of targets. How do we actually prepare to remote view, to use
technical remote viewing skills, to derive information about these types of
targets? Well, we first create a target folder. At SciTech, we simply use a
Manila folder similar to this, and on that folder, on the tab, we write the name
of the target. The most important part of setting up the problem is the name of
the target. I cannot overemphasize this. The name must be unambiguous, it must be
concise, and as simple as possible. I'll talk to you about this in a moment when
we discuss queuing, but for now, the name of your target goes on your folder.
After you place the name there, you should generate a set of random numbers,
the same way that we generated them in the first tape, in the introductory
lesson. Any two four-digit numbers will do. It's irrelevant. These
are simply random numbers. They have no bearing upon the targeting at all.
They're simply for administrative purposes, and that is it. Now, if you would
like to place reference material in the folder, you can do that. For instance,
suppose my target were the Statue of Liberty in New York City, in the harbor.
I might want to use this as a training project. I could place a photo of the
Statue of Liberty in my targeting folder. That becomes target reference
material. It's very important that you realize, however, that if you place
reference material in the folder, it will influence the point of view, no
pun intended, that your unconscious takes at the target. Let me say that
again. If you place target reference material in your targeting folder, your
mind will use that as a jump-off point to describe the target. You will not be
remote viewing the reference material. Your mind will look at the reference
material as a modification of the target requirement, and you will remote view
from that camera angle. Again, harking back to the Statue of Liberty as an
example, if one is practicing against the Statue of Liberty and you take a photo
of the Statue of Liberty, place it in your targeting file, then if that photo
were taken, let's say a year earlier, that would be the place in time that your
mind would go, and that would be the perspective from whence the photo was
taken, the photographer's angle, your unconscious attention, because mind is
outside of space and time. Mind is immediately one year prior at the target
and at the angle that the photographer took the photo. The descriptions that you
perceive, your perceptions of the Statue of Liberty will still be very correct,
but they will apply to that moment in time and from that perspective in space,
if you place target reference material in your folder. This folder, as you
remember from the introductory tape, is the only target folder that goes on the
desk in front of you, the desk or table in front of you when you work. Make sure
you have no other folders, target folders, on the desk when you work. If you do,
you may morph or combine elements of more than one target into your session.
What about other objects? Coffee cups, vases, flowers, whatever. And as an unskilled
viewer, a viewer who is learning remote viewing, it's best to keep the table
clear of objects. Otherwise, subliminally out of the corner of your eyes, so to
speak, you may, in your sketches, in your stage three sketches, include things
that are on the table, outlines and abstract sketches. They may end up in
your sketch as well as the actual target data, the remote target data. Yes,
exactly right. The name of the target takes precedence over everything else,
including your intent, including anything else. The name comes first. That is what
takes precedence. Your mind is going to look at the idea that's represented by
that name. Your mind will take the idea represented by the name and find that,
or the next best thing, and I'll talk about that in a moment, and this
collective unconscious library. Now, what happens if the name has no
concomitant in the collective unconscious? Think of an analogy. Let me
use an analogy. If you, the remote viewer, come to me, the librarian in the
collective unconscious, with a request for a book, and that book, and that request
says, Statue of Liberty. I can go and find a number of books on the Statue of
Liberty, and I'm going to give you, and your unconscious mind will perceive
elements of the actual Statue of Liberty. But if you come to me with a request
for the Statue of Liberty, let's say, in the year 1000, I have no book that
matches your request. There was no Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor in the
year 1000. Now, what do I do? I, the librarian, come to you with the next best
thing. A stack of other books talking to you about New York Harbor, as it existed
in the year 1000. I come to you with a set of books, and in that stack of books
is New York Harbor, or what is today New York Harbor in the year 1000. The
Statue of Liberty, the way it is today. Then your unconscious mind must adjudicate
that data, and what you will get, because that's a nonsense cue. In your
Stage 3 sketch is a sketch of a water body, and that's all. That's your
unconscious way of telling you that something is wrong with your search
term. And on that note, let me introduce the idea of queuing, setting up the
problem. You'll hear me often talk, and you will use the word the cue. The subject
is queuing. What do I mean by the cue? The cue is essentially the matrix search
parameter, or parameters. Can you spell that? Or a better way to say it is the
matrix search terms. The target is the actual remote viewing thing, but what you
are remote viewing is the target. The pattern of information, the specific
point of reference in the collective unconscious, a pattern is what we call
the target. The cue is the word that we write down. It's the name of that
particular, how we refer to that pattern of information. How we refer to that
information is an idea. Ideas are represented by words. We write the
word down, the word is translated by our minds, and our unconscious mind back
into an abstract idea, and it's that idea that is sought out in the collective
unconscious. The word becomes the cue. So, if as a training target, or just as an
item of interest, I wanted to look at the person. George Washington. Here's my
target. A person. Cut and dry. Just keep in mind, however, a couple of things. I
have not dictated to my personal unconscious how, where, and when to
perceive my target. My mind will come into the target in any place using any
tap or stratagem that it chooses at any time in this person's life. From birth
to death. This is George Washington's timeline. So, if George Washington becomes
my target, and I am remote viewing him, my mind can pick up this man any point
in time, in this man's life. Be aware of that. So, when we do that, if we
do, if we don't know, and mind is outside of time, so we're not going to know at
where we are in this person's life until we begin to describe him in higher
stages as a young adult, as an older man, as a child. Then we can move from
that point to the left, the past in his life, or forward in his life, and explore
his life using this simple search term. Notice that I created this cue. I, Ed
Dames, chose George Washington. So, collective unconscious in that library
is going to pick out some books. There have been any number of George Washington's
people with this name in history and alive today, probably. However, in my mind,
the creator, my intent was the former president, the first president of the
United States, that particular George Washington. And that, now, my intent acts
to modify my search term. On the other hand, if I chose Mickey Mouse as my
target, what does this target represent? It represents an abstract idea, and
remote viewers, and a single remote viewer, every time they work this, will be in
a different place. They will find themselves all over the place using
vernacular, because Mickey Mouse is an abstract idea, meaning many different
things to many different people. The creator, the animator, the person who
enjoys watching cartoons, each person in the collective unconscious perceives this
target in a different way. The collective unconscious has many different points to
choose from. George Washington was unique in time and space, unequivocal,
unambiguous target, and therefore your data will be unambiguous if you stay in
remote viewing structure. What you can use, what you can build into your
problem, and we'll work for you right now, in terms of time, a time fix. The
collective unconscious, the matrix, understands this, present. It understands
that. It understands next. It understands future, and it understands past. Yes, a
next event. On a timeline, let's say to the right by convention is the future,
and this is the past, present somewhere here. In advanced stages of TRV, you're
going to be able to locate yourself on this timeline, but time is a very
abstract thing. Yes, it's real, but it's very abstract. You can't grab it, so we're
already on shaky ground. Where we work best in TRV is against physical things,
because we live in, we're physical guys, physical world. The better way to look at
this, the better way to look at a timeline is to call it an event line,
because time has no meaning to our minds. There's no meaning unless there's events.
This event happened here, and it can be characterized by a lot of people sitting
around signing a declaration. After that came another event where a bunch of men
with rifles were attacking other people who were wearing red coats. After that
was this event, and this event, and this event. All registered in the collective,
in different places. It's very much like memory in the human brain,
the physical human brain. You've got bits and pieces, the idea of a coffee cup,
the idea of smelling coffee is registered in one place, the idea of a cup is
somewhere else, the idea of a handle is somewhere else, and you have to pull all
those things together and say, coffee cup. The coffee cup just isn't in one place,
in a discreet place in the brain. It's distributed all over the place as a
pattern that we have to put together. Our operating system has to put it together.
So this is, look at this more as an event line than a timeline. Events, the
concatenation of events. Then we can bracket an event. You can say, hey, I'm
interested in this event right here, which I've described one way, and I can
begin to bracket it by known things. The next presidential election, which is
already out there somewhere. The outcome may not be, but the event is, or this, or
that. There are other ways to calibrate this timeline that you're going to learn.
We can calibrate the event line using either physical events or emotion.
Emotional events or physical events. Nothing abstract though. Abstracts don't
work. The idea of January 22nd, 1999, is not out there, because this is in a
timeline. It's an event line. There's no event called January 22nd. There is a
presidential election, which is a physical event. Maybe. There is an
emotional event called your birthday or Christmas, depending on whether it's
emotional to you or someone else. Those are the kinds of things you'll learn how
to do to calibrate and develop an index with this event line, to know where you
are in space and time. Let's talk about a, both a person and an event. Let's say
John F. Kennedy. In this case, I have chosen, I have chosen this man as a
target. But that is not my target. My target becomes a point in time. I want to
remote view this person at the moment of his death. So instead of looking at this
person's life anywhere from birth to death, my unconscious no longer has a
choice. It's constrained by the search term, so modified by this. Death. This man,
modified by this idea, this becomes, death is an event. But be careful. Here are
some things that can complicate the idea. In the collective unconscious is this
term death as both an event and a state of being. The same way that an
encyclopedia would define death as both an event and the state of being. So to be
on the safe side, I suggest that you ask yourself, if you had an encyclopedia in
front of you with all the different kinds of things that you're looking for,
those different ideas, think about searching an encyclopedia. Use an
encyclopedic search term. You can be very specific or you can be very general.
Here we're relatively general in terms of John F. Kennedy. Now we've specified a
point, in this case an event. We are not interested in the state of death. In fact,
that is a very high level esoteric topic that will be covered in advanced
specialized series of modules. How do you decide when to make it really general
versus really specific? If your search term is general, a general search term, you
get lots of data. If you have a specific search term, you get only a little bit of
data. Let's say I'm looking at the idea of global deforestation. Whether I'm in a
library here on the ground or I'm in the collective unconscious, there's a
plethora of details on global deforestation. I could conduct hundreds
and hundreds of TRV sessions and still not exhaust the supply of information on
global deforestation. In this case, perhaps I'm interested in not global
deforestation, but Peru, the country of Peru. Is this known in the collective
unconscious? Peru? It is. The country and the idea, the idea of Peru, has been in
the collective unconscious long enough to leave and mark, and so the collective
recognizes it. Peru, deforestation, that's more specific. But what does deforestation
mean? By lightning, by fires, or by man? This has to be defined. If you've ever
used an encyclopedia or an automated database, this collective unconscious
stores material, stores information in a very similar way, almost exactly the
same way that a library stores information, from the general to the
specific. As a newly trained remote viewer, don't expect to take a front loaded
target, particularly a person or a place or a thing or an object, that you know
and be able to work it effectively. I can't think of anything more difficult for
a new remote viewer than to do that. To attempt to remote you a thing that you
already know, your skills are not in place enough to do that. Only someone
with advanced TRV skills can tackle a complete known and gain additional
information on it. So I would not suggest that you try to do that. Use this tool to
solve problems, to solve for unknowns. What is at a place? Who is at a place?
What kind of event is this? What is happening? What happened? Total unknowns.
That way your unconscious is forced to do all the work and it's much easier for
your consciousness not to get involved with this data because it's coming to
you in the blind. It's all new data. It's just too difficult to try to cope with
data that you're already familiar with. Don't do that until you're an advanced
technology remote viewer. Use this for unknown.
What is at a place? Who is at a place? Who is at a place?
There's a lot to cover. A lot of ground to cover. A lot of new things to learn. Far
more than in the introductory module. But before we move on, I'd like to perform a
quick review. And before I give you a quick review, I want to mention one more
thing. The most common error as a technical remote viewer is shortcuts.
There's a lot of work to do in this process. It's fascinating. It can be an
adventure, but sometimes it can be drudge work. Don't be tempted to take a
shortcut. Stay in structure step-by-step, closer and closer target contact, and don't
take shortcuts. They'll cost you. They'll cost you a lot of data and you may not be
able to analyze your work correctly because you won't have enough information
or you will have lost the target completely. Stay in structure. You'll
remember in stage one, I'll call it S1, the abbreviate, we had contact with the
target as a gestalt, the gestalt of information. And our autonomic nervous
system, our body's response to the gestalt, the way that the pattern of
information was received as a signal, a compressed data signal by our bodies, was
an ideogram. Our ideograms were standard ideograms. They conformed to certain
classes of targets. You remember that we had this ideogram for mountain, this one
for land, a wavy across for water, and a right angle for man-made structure. Several
variations on these themes, all ideograms required decoding. We must
perceive the motion and the feeling. And nothing is more important to this
process than correctly discerning motion and feeling. So we'll talk about this
periodically in the intermediate stages as well as the advanced stages. There are
eleven standard ideograms. One might say that the universe breaks out to eleven
different gestalts and then goes from there to an infinite number of
permutations, infinite variability. And they look like this. In other words, most
people on a bell curve, the way that these ideograms are produced, they appear
to meet standard procedure. They're standard in nature. Standard ideograms
look like this. I'm going to give you all eleven right now. There are non-standard
ideograms also. It's important to realize that the ideogram itself, the
appearance of the ideogram, is not important. We should not attempt when we
produce it, and you will. You should not attempt to analyze it or contemplate it.
There are other things that you must do as soon as you produce the ideogram. But
if you're lucky enough to produce a standard ideogram, it becomes a real aid
to analysis, to data analysis quickly in the TRV process. One. Just like that.
They're produced about a third of a second, very quickly. This is land.
Two. Water. Now, later on, you'll get this ideogram for any type of liquid, but
this is the archetypical ideogram. This represents like your salt, generally in
human environment, water. In any form, left to right, top to bottom, this is
man-made structure. Notice the right angle. The change in the direction of the
line is very important. I'll get to the reasons why, in a moment, when we talk
about decoding the ideograms, and what exactly that means.
Mountain. These are gestalts, remember. So when I say man-made structure, this is
the ideogram that you're going to get for both anything that's man-made,
whether it's this pen or a city. It's still the same thing in terms of a
gestalt, a pattern of information. The way the pattern starts out is a fuzzy
thought ball, and it breaks out into the detail later. It's the same thing with
mountain. This could be a single large mountain or a mountain range. The gestalt
is the same. It's the same thing. Will we know later? Absolutely. Absolutely. But
this is how it starts. This jump starts the process. Here's another. This, called
the loop, is a life form. A life form, either a living thing, usually not a
plant. A plant will take on another ideogrammatic form. A life form, an
animal, could even be a microorganism, or the semblance of life, a statue, a bust,
a mannequin that will still give you this. You will not know until stage three,
which comes in about five to seven minutes later, whether you're dealing
with a living thing or the semblance of a living thing. Okay? That's the pattern,
the beginning pattern. It's embedded in the collective unconscious. Six. This is
usually a large circular feature, and that's what it is. A large, a large circle
that's produced that rapidly. A large circular feature. So it could be a sphere
as well as a circle, but things like this could be a planet, an island, a lake, or a
pond, a ferrous wheel. We'll produce that kind of an ideogram. We'll have a lot more
to say about these later, but these are how they present right off the bat. We'll
know what we're dealing with if we produce standard ideograms very, very
quickly, if they conform to the standard.
Energy. A lightning storm. A linear accelerator target. An explosion.
Energetic. The motion. Motion has its own gestalt. Usually represented by a long,
fast line that peters out, fades off across the paper, and this can be in any
direction. Many times motion and energy are combined in a multiple ideogram, and
we'll talk about those momentarily. Nine. That. Just a dot. That is the vacuum of
space, underwater, or inside any material matrix. So if I were to place a student's
mind inside of a table, or a piece of granite rock, many times you'll get this
dot as a simple ideogram. That's all. Ten. Activity. It's the name we give it. When
a group of people, or life forms, are bunched together, a flock of sheep, or a
crowd of people at a football game, or in a stadium, when they're shoulder to
shoulder, they no longer produce a life form ideogram. They produce an ideogram
that looks like this. Very often this ideogram is decoded incorrectly. We'll
get into what that might mean later. But that's what it looks like. If you're
getting an ideogram like that, you can suspect that you have what we call
activity. Lots, a group of people in motion. And the last one, life or death. This
is called a loop, and this is designated as an inverse loop. When you produce an
ideogram like that on paper, you're probably dealing with matters of life or
death at any level. So, for instance, we were to look for a missing person, and
instead of producing this ideogram, we produced this ideogram here that bodes
ill for the person's existence. It may be that they've already died or in the
process of dying. Sometimes this isn't the case, many times it is. So this is,
although a remote viewing session is about an hour long, we can tell right
off the bat what's going on if you're a train remote viewer. These are the 11
standard ideograms. There are two other archetypical forms that look like
ideograms, but do not present in stage one. They present in stage three. These are
not ideograms, but you'll sketch them in stage three, where we do sketching. One
of them is a zigzag form, and that is usually some type of energy in motion.
Another is this. It starts out as a spiral, a helix, a helix either starting
here or starting from the top down. This is not an ideogram, but it's an
archetypical symbol that deals with spiritual things, the departure of a
soul from a dying human being, a monastery in the wilderness. You will
see these kinds of archetypical symbols that you will spontaneously draw,
although not as fast as a real ideogram. Your body will produce these and
respond to a, let's call it a spiritual signal line. And one more, very rare, a
fairly universal symbol at least in the last century for, mathematically, for
infinity. This is very rare in remote viewing. When you run up against it, it's
only in a few unique cases, very unique cases, that deal with matters of both
spirituality as well as life and death, usually over time. And I won't get into
that now. That's advanced stuff. But these are not ideograms. They appear as
sketched symbols in stage three. Sometimes they're mistaken as ideograms.
You won't see them normally in stage one. So back to the 11 standard
ideograms, it appears that in terms of the TRV universe, that all things, no
matter what you're dealing with, begin as one of those 11 gestaltes, and then they
break out into infinite amount of detail. Things begin as a gestalt, and we go
from the gestalt, to the general, to the specific, to the detailed. We need more
time on target to do that. Okay. Decoding the ideogram.
It turns out that your ideograms don't have to be standard. They can look like
anything, as long as they're produced rapidly enough, and they're spontaneous.
They're spontaneously generated in about a third of a second. Now, that might be a
mountain, or it could be water. We're not sure. Now, if this were a standard
ideogram, then I could pretty much say that this would be a hill or a
mountain, but we really don't know. Don't eyeball the ideogram. Don't attempt to
analyze it, and don't contemplate it. Move immediately to decoding the ideogram.
And by that, I mean, we're attempting to determine the ideogram's motion first.
By motion, I mean the following. What was the sense that you got when you
produced the ideogram on paper? What was the sense of motion? And we want to
decode the ideogram. Every single line segment of the ideogram, the motion must
be decoded correctly. So, in this case, I'll ask myself, and I can retrace the
ideogram in the air, right above this, a couple of times if I need to. What did I
do? What did my body feel like? What was the sense that I got of motion? I felt
myself, and this really is a felt feeling. I felt myself moving diagonally up, and
I'll write that down. I'm going to abbreviate, diagonal up, then what did I do?
Curving over, vertical down, and diagonal curving across. This is what I mean by
decoding the ideogram's motion. It's a felt sense. It's as if your body were
moving along the profile of the target that way. And then we want to do one
more thing. We want to investigate the ideogram's feeling.
The motion and the feeling. By feeling, I mean the following. I'm going to ask you
to hold your pen like this and touch the line itself for about two seconds. You're
going to be able to deduce the way the ideogram feels using one of six
descriptors. The descriptors are on your checklist. Don't use any other
descriptors. They'll get you into trouble. You don't know that much about it. And the
descriptors are the following. Does it feel hard, soft? These are on your
checklist, by the way. The checklist that you have. Does it feel hard, soft,
liquid, airy, semi-soft, or semi-hard? Just those words. No others at this point.
That's what we mean by feeling. This is a little bit tricky at first. Not hard and
soft necessarily. But the other ideas of airy and liquid are sometimes difficult
at this certain. You may need a couple of days, perhaps three or four, before this
really gets in. But it doesn't matter. It's the work that's involved in doing it
that matters and trying your best to decode that ideogram. Because, as you'll
find, luckily, technical remote viewing is a self-correcting process. If you're
working hard and you're staying within the protocols and you're doing your best
any mistakes you make will be corrected by the process itself. You'll still get
the target, as we are so low at the say, but you'll still describe the target
correctly in spite of yourself. It's because the process is self-correcting.
It's self-correcting in the following analogous manner. If I'm moving down a
fast-moving river toward my destination, occasionally I might get caught up my
boat and I in an eddy, a side eddy, a small current over here near the banks.
If I don't do any work, I'll be stuck in this eddy. But if I do
some work to get back into the stream, I'm back in the stream and I'm moving again.
I'm moving down the river. I may get caught in a few more eddies, but the
technical remote viewing process analogously has ways of banning you back
out of those eddies or ruts and getting you back onto the path again and keeping
you moving. The process itself does that, so you don't have to fear about losing
the target. This was not true 15 years ago. We were not sure if we lost
the target or not. We could be sure that our imagination many times was not
overlaying our data, but we weren't quite sure if we lost target contact. That's
not the case anymore. You don't have to worry about that in technical
remote viewing. These two things are necessary. Get this right. Get the motion
and the feeling right in your ideogram. And I'm going to ask you to produce that
ideogram two or three times before we move on to stage two. If you reproduce
the ideogram, and it's very different, that means you decoded the first one
completely correctly. You got both the feeling and the motion correct. So if I
produce that and I decode this as curving up, curving over, diagonal down, and
horizontal across, and in fact that is incorrect, that that's not, that that's
actually a sloppy angle, a 90 degree angle, and I did not say vertical up,
angle horizontal across. We just slopped that down on a piece of paper. This
ideogram, the way that I produced it the first time, will come back almost
identically. The ideogram comes back looking almost identical to the way it
did before for standard ideograms. Then you decoded either the feeling, the
motion, or both incorrectly on the first ideogram. If this goes away, and you get
a new ideogram, then this was decoded correctly. There's more to this, to stage
one, that you'll need to know. For instance, usually if we're solving a
problem, the first ideogram is the key, is the key solution. So if there's an
explosion outside, and I have no idea what caused the explosion, and we use
that event, the explosion, as a target, and we're looking for the source of the
event, and my ideogram is this first, QED, that's a life form. We've got, we've
got a life form, probably a human being, or a group of human beings that cause the
explosion, as opposed to this. A structure as a source, or the origin of the, as a
source of the explosion or the cause, a broken, a generator blowing up, or a car
overheating, or something like that, initiating the explosion, right off the
bat. A multiple ideogram is very, very common. More often than not, your
ideograms, I'd say probably two-thirds of the time, you'll be dealing with
multiple ideograms. By multiple, I mean something like this, where my first, and
you'll need to be able to break these out, to separate one gestalt from the
other. So I want you to place, to determine where one gestalt ends, in terms of
its ideogrammatic representation, and the other begins here, probably right
there. And so I'm dealing with, and just do your best, I'm dealing here with, now
notice how I drew this. I drew it that way, it looks that way on paper. Don't look
at it, retrace it, retrace or capture the feeling. In fact, this is horizontal
across, angle, and by angle, I mean right angle. Anything else is a peak. We'll get
into that later. Angle, vertical down.
What's the feeling? It's hard. So we're probably dealing with a man-made structure.
So this part of the ideogram is man-made. And over here, is this two or is it one?
It appears to be one. Simply wavy across. And it's liquid. I still have a problem
discerning a soft from liquid, and it's no problem. It will go away. I just have to
make sure I don't, in my mind, turn this into a forest that's soft and wavy. If I
get that idea, I do something with the idea that we'll talk about later.
Stage one, all stage one is, Gestalt Contact, is our foot in the door. We've
got something down in this deep murky unconscious. We've got our hand on something.
We have no idea what it is. Now we may have a certain idea, though, if we produce
standard ideograms. We're lucky enough to produce standard ideograms. My ideograms
are standard. Surprisingly, I think surprisingly, that non-standard ideograms
are produced by people with natural talent, who are naturally psychic. People
who are naturally psychic many times produce non-standard ideograms. They
also have a looser control of their structure, need to be reined in, much
tighter. If they tow the line, they can become very good remote viewers. But what
they lose is, they lose a little bit of an analytical clue, in that their
initial ideograms are not standard.
98, 04, 3, 2, 4, 1. Diagonal. Down. Peak. Angle. Curving up.
Curving around.
Looping up. Looping over. Curving over. And down. Semi-hard.
Again. 98, 04, 3, 2, 4, 1. Diagonal. Down. Peak. Curving up. Curving over.
Wavy across. Soft. One more time. Okay. 98, 04, 3, 2, 4, 1. Diagonal. Down.
Peak. Curving up. Curving around. Angle. Diagonal up. Hard.
It's too much.
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
How do we take the target reference numbers a couple of times and produce the
ideogram two or three times and decode it? That gives us
nice contact very much like digging a hole into
which we pour the foundation for a building. Stage one is like that,
analogously digging a hole for a foundation. Stage two is laying
the foundation, laying the concrete. Stage two is sensory contact.
Music
I'm going to use the terms target
and site synonymously for a little while longer and I know
there's a lot of discrimination between them in stage three.
Sensory target contact. Here, our mind is bouncing around
target area or the site, exploring it for sensory
impressions. But we are going to dictate
the way in which it does it. We're going to impose an order as part
of TRV structure, order on the way and unconscious
explores using sensory impressions explores the target
within the first demand to know what colors
are present at the site.
What textures,
what smells and tastes,
temperatures
and sounds
including onomatopoetic sounds, bang bang,
clang clang,
tingle tingle, dimensions.
These are all important, the dimensions.
If we have, having three or four dimensions,
I'll explain what I mean about dimensions in a moment, having three or four
percepts, dimensional percepts, mean that you've got
quite a degree of target contact that we're ready to move on to something else.
So, these are self-explanatory. And the pace and the cadence
at which they're produced is very metronomic. You'll notice that
stage one, you'll notice in a little while, that stage one is very rapid. Itigrams
produced rapidly, you don't dally, you just go in there and the
viewer decodes the emotion feeling and moves on to stage two.
Stage two is a little bit slower, but still in a metronomic
fashion we're going to ask, what colors? Well, there's blue,
yellow, sharp truths, a little silver.
There's a pause. That pause lasts more than
three or four seconds, move on to the next category of textures.
Because that pause is important. That kind of pause
is very, very important to the work that we do.
A moment of time for a human being is generally about
three seconds. We divide our linear time, our
reality, our sense of what our experience is, up into packets of about
three seconds each. And we integrate what goes on in those three second
packets to be able to say, a moment ago I was
talking about textures and colors, or metronomic pace.
That's how we do that. So, if we need
to integrate data in three second packets,
creative imagination does the same thing too.
If we're moving through this checklist faster than four seconds
from moment to moment, that means we're moving faster than
creative imagination can supply us with data. Every time creative imagination
begins to put a package together analytically or otherwise
it has to drop it and abandon it because we've moved on to something else
to another area.
Smells, tastes, temperatures, all these words are on your checklist
please use it in the first several days, sounds, and dimensions.
And by dimensions we're looking for four classes of dimensions.
The first one are verticals,
horizontals,
diagonals,
and masses and densities.
Masses and densities.
So, by this I mean
this is more than through a lens darkly. You have no idea where you're at. You're in this
dark murky soup somewhere. You're being asked to perceive something.
What I'm saying here is after we've explored the
site and ordered the information in terms of how senses were perceived
what kind of verticals are around you? What kind of this is around
mind knows this. Is there something around you that's high and tall,
low and squat, narrow and thin?
How about horizontals? This is
a piece of cake folks so don't worry about it. I know the fear of failures here
but that's just something you'll have to deal with it, that's your problem. It's not a problem
for me because I know you'll be over it like that. This is very, very automatic.
Mind knows these things. Is your target inside or
outside? Is it open and vast? Low.
Long and narrow. We know these kind of
things automatically. Mind knows this. We just don't have to do it day to day because we have
other things to do. Shopping, laundry, driving the cars.
Diagonals. As I mentioned in the past, diagonals are very, very
unique in nature. That's why mountains is the answer
to what is the most easiest remote viewing target. The easiest
thing to remote view is a mountain. It's big and it's got diagonals.
Unique diagonals. Diagonals are unique in nature.
Mind will always be attracted to novelty and masses
and densities. It's whatever you're perceiving, light,
thick, heavy, hollow, thin,
airy, dense, solid, bulky, huge,
big, large. That's what we mean by masses and densities.
And there's no creative imagination
needed. There's a checklist right there. Go right through the list. Multiple
choice, no problem. Even a child could do it.
And there are other behavioral things that you should be doing.
Your pen should be very close to that paper. It should not be
up here. And the worst thing you could possibly do is to do this.
Because that means not only is the pen off the
paper and you're not attending to the flow, but you're in your mind
instead of in the matrix. You see eyeballs go up
in the head. That means you're starting to think.
So you're starting to decide. I hear people say, well, I can't
decide. I said, decide. You're thinking. Just go there.
You're perceiving. Don't think. Perceive is a perception process.
If your target, let's say, would be an open body of water,
we're here. It would either be fresh or
salty, brackish, chemical, pungent, rancid.
Something would be there. Perhaps fresh.
Fresh smells, fresh tastes. Textures, liquid
or wet is a common one. Colors, whatever the colors are.
Brown, if it's brackish, blue, turquoise.
Could be white, if you're dealing with a shoreline. But that would be an
interface of tubular salts, land and water.
Temperatures, whatever the temperature is. Ambient for the air, cold
for the water. Warm for the water. What you're unconscious is
doing is bouncing around the site. It's taking a color here,
a color there, a texture here, a texture there.
That will not be the case in stage four.
But in stage two it is. Let's think of the spider trying to
weave a web. Spider webs are intricate and beautiful. Aesthetically, works of art.
But for the spider to first weave the web, it's got to
get a foothold here and a handle. There's any place that it can. Before it starts
weaving this intricate web, that's stage two. Stage two process.
For your sounds, it could be rushing
splashing, something like that. Or no sounds at all. But for dimensions
you have to get dimensions. In fact, you must get
three or four. You must have three or four dimensions in this
process. So in case of water, it could be open, vast,
wide, outside, low,
wavy. That's more than three. Any three will do.
That's enough contact to move on to the next thing.
The next thing has nothing to do with the data at all.
It has nothing to do with data connected with your target. It has to do with the way you feel
about it. And that we call an AI.
An aesthetic impact.
By the time
we declare
three or four dimensions,
when we objectify the data, we're getting
this data that comes in. Remember now, these are percepts. They have no name.
They're things that come in as ideas.
They come in, we perceive something in the right brain
sense. We go to our linear left brain, the one
that linearizes our life. Whether it's speaking,
concatenation, subject, verb, object, time, those kind of things.
We go there and we look for a label to hang on to this person.
And we choose one. Where has that done, by the way?
Where are the words that I'm speaking right now coming from? At what level?
Am I choosing them? No. I'm out speaking my thinking.
But there is analysis going on at the pre-conscious level.
There is analysis going on. Why did I just say choose?
Instead of select. There's a selector,
right brainism, that grabbed the word for me. And this is done at the pre-conscious level.
That's the level that's searching for
labels to put on these percepts. It hangs the label on.
In the tachystoscopic sense, we go back into the right brain, grab another percept,
go back to the left brain, hang a label. Right brain, hang a label. That's why we're conscious
when we do this. We're not in an altered state. We're very alert.
As a matter of fact, we're listening to, we're grabbing that little unconscious signal
finding a label. Unconscious signal finding a label.
I know there's a lot of angst here, but once this
kicks in, one of the most common things you'll see in this process
is when somebody learns stages one, two, and three, for instance,
after they've got it down, which only takes a couple of days, they say,
yeah, it's nothing. Anybody can do it. They really give short shrift to it.
It's as if they've been doing it all their life.
Aesthetic impact.
After you perceive three or four dimensions and you
objectify them in terms of writing the word down, the word that stands for the
idea, I want you
to go inside of yourself for a moment and ask this question,
how does the sight at this juncture
end of the stage two list? How does the sight make me feel?
What am I feeling about the sight?
The reason, and that feeling will really have
nothing to do with the reality of what that is, will have
nothing to do with the way you would really feel if you were at the sight.
It's actually junk, but we need to dump it so it doesn't start getting
in the way, it doesn't start overlaying the objective nature
of the data. We have to remain unbiased and our own
feelings, if they start to pop up, are judgments that convert
themselves to feelings, you've got to get them out of the way.
I've seen people actually break down and cry,
running, removering sessions, but they were crying about
imagination. They believed they were working something else. They had already lost
the target. And I let them entertain their
imagination and show them how careful you must be to get rid of your own feelings.
They're trash at this juncture. Later on, that won't be the case. Later on
at stage four. Go in, ask yourself at this point, how
does the sight make me feel? Go in and take a dipstick, put it inside,
and say, I'm interested.
And a little anxious.
Or whatever.
The words on this
list in stage two, all the
sensory impressions, they represent
about 80%
nominally of all the words, all the
responses to perceptions, sensory
perceptions that I've observed in the last 14 or 15 years of teaching.
So it's not just a willy-nilly random list.
I want you to wean yourself away from the list later on, but right now
there's something there that will fit at this early juncture.
Stage two.
Blue, orange,
purple, white,
textures, mottled,
rough,
smooth, hard,
metallic.
Sweet, aromatic.
Bitter.
Temperatures.
Warm.
Dimensions. Sounds.
Clanging voices.
Dimensions.
Round, oval,
decimal, curved,
angled, etched,
fast, under,
shallow.
AI, interesting.
That's three.
That's three.
