You
You
So
After about 35 minutes sometimes 40 depending on the number of key aspects you have in your original
Freehand sketch your original stage three we've now reached the point where we're ready to put together to create an idea template
And this is how we do it
We began by taking our first stage three sketch
That's that I'll leave that there. There's our first stage three sketch
We place that in the center of the table in front of us. We're going to use that as a reference
Next we look for the first analytical sketch the first analytical stage three and that will be of our target
As three
Analytical sketch
We want that let's say that's page
Page three. Oh, let's say it's page four page four
I'm then going to look for page five and sort through my my pages
I'm going to look for page five and page five will give me the attendant stage four
two-thirds of a page of
stage four data I
Want those two pages in front of me
Now what I'm going to do is on a clean sheet of paper. I'm the number of this page and I will write it on the page
idea template
I'll look at the analytical sketch I have for my target. Let's say it looks like
Something like
Like this
Let's say that's the analytical sketch that I have based upon a move
These are be the target and the dimensions that I've acquired. I'm going to now take this and
I'm going to locate a point that feels comfortable to begin sketching
Resketching this stage three analytical sketch on my idea template. I want to recreate exactly
This sketch this analytical sketch here on my idea template as a start as a starter
Now I may want to change the scale
Making the original sketch either larger or smaller or I may not
I'll intuitively know whether or not the scale should be changed and
And I'll find the point that feels most comfortable to recreate this sketch
Identically and it will usually be somewhere around though the location that it originally presented in my stage three
But maybe not so I've got this and this
This and this my scale feels right that is the analytical sketch
Connected with my target and now I'm going to go to this next page page five in this case
I'm going to look at my stage four data
And I'm going to ask myself
is there important data in the stage four page and
What can I hang my hat on this pick on this data? Do I really trust it?
If this data is important, and I really feel like I was in TRV structure at the time I'm going to want to tack it on
To the sketch right here
At this point for instance my AI's how did I feel?
What were my AI's my aesthetic impact associated with the sketch?
The first time I'll look at my stage four data
And I'll notice in my AI column that when I was sketching this I felt in my state in my stage four
When I when I was in stage four. I felt
Anxious and I'm going to write that down in small letters AI anxious
Target made me feel anxious and the EIs the emotional impact that was connected
With this particular analytical sketch and the stage four
There were EIs there, and I know that were they the EIs of
happy and
Frightened
At the same time this is important data
Were there any other data?
That I feel secure about that I want to tack on to the sketch. I know there were people I
Feel there were people that really wasn't an AOL that was people and
Because that is a life form
Symbol a life form archetypical
Symbol in stage three. I know that the people were there
So this is not just one life form
It's a group of life forms and these people were happy and frightened and the site itself the target area itself made me feel anxious
So I want to tack those things on there. I
Already know that this is a structure and that this is a structure
Because of the angles involved and the man-madeness that it that it I felt when I touched them
This is probably land
So that's that's my target position correctly in my idea template next I go to aspect a
And let's say
That this is aspect a this is my analytical sketch of aspect a
on page eight
My s3 of a and on page nine I
Have my attendant stage for data
So now I'll need to do something else. I want to take aspect a
Which presented as in this form right here, I've now expanded it
To to include new elements. I want to take this and I want to juxtapose it in my idea template again
Expanding or contracting the scale to fit in here like pieces of a puzzle. I
Want to juxtapose this here, and I mean you have to compress it or expand it to fit in there may be some overlap
There may not
In this case there is overlap
This is obviously that
So I'm going to take that I'm going to squeeze this down here
This is also that so I'm dealing with basically the same area of the site except there's another aspect
That's not included in my first target stage three analytical sketch, and it's this diagonal line
I need to find out where that goes and it goes right about there and
There is also a new aspect here
Where does that go? I have to feel around for where that it should be near to my diagonal
And it goes right about here. I recreate this sketch exactly
These are new elements that I juxtapose here. I
fit in
Like pieces of a puzzle in my idea template now my stage fours come in I tack on my stage four
What do I have? I have something that's very loud and banging
and a loud
banging noises
associated with that as that particular aspect in my idea template and
It makes me feel here
Excited my AI is excited
I'm not I didn't pick up any EIs at this point
But I did pick up something in a tangible column
There is a long metallic object, and I know that it is like a pole
AOL signal like a pole that's the best that I could do at the time
Something was long or metallic was like a pole. So instead of calling this a pole. I'll just call it long and
and metallic just to be on the safe side and
So on with aspects B
C and D by the time I'm finished
With I've taken all the data that I've derived by exploring aspects B C and D and placed it in here
juxtapose correctly
Vis-a-vis these other aspects starting with my target. I
Have an idea template the idea template contains all the essential elements of information
about the target and
The solution to the problem
all the essentials are there and
Schematic diagram form right in front of me
Now sometimes and sometimes you'll have these aspects here and
In your first stage three freehand
We hand sketch
These other elements are contextual nature
These elements these key aspects provide context so that the targets can have meaning in
Our idea template after we explore all these other aspects
We may find something very interesting
Now watch this
When I get to the idea template after I explore each of these aspects in turn
I may find that I've got something here that fits in there and something there and something there and something there
Something here, and I'm labeling these with feeling my own aesthetic
Impact in emotions and all that but I feel that this
That this aspect right here aspect A doesn't fit anywhere. I can't juxtapose it
I can't squeeze it in it doesn't overlap
I don't know where it goes. It feels like it's over here somewhere
Put it over there put a dotted line over here and put in whatever aspect a is
Whatever it appears to be in in your analytical sketch
Put that over there because it may be somewhere else literally or geographically far away or
In another time
But it's required this act that's required to understand the solution to this problem. Let me give you an example
Let's say that as a blind target I
Am remote viewing a movie set where a movie is being made. I
find myself
Outside this is my stage three my first stage three freehand
And
I
Feel that
My target is here. This is the most important aspect and
These are separate aspects a and b and
And this is aspect C and this is aspect D
Which might be wavy land or sand dunes or water? I don't know we'd have to find out when we explore that but
if this is a movie site and
I find out that in my explorations of a and b that these are people groups of people and they're dressed in
Roman centurion
Outfits with spheres and shields
They're really with that information alone just the information and and later the drawings that will have in higher level
Higher level sessions. I may not know where I am in time. I may truly be remote viewing a
Rome ancient Rome or a battle. I
May be in Peloponnesia in a different century and error. I don't know that but I've noticed something funny in my
Stage fours that are attended with a and b that the people here the emotional impact the people are bored
They're tired. They're purposeful
They're running back and forth and they're working. I've also noticed something else
that
This is a road and on that road when I explored it our vehicles that smell of carbon dioxide and make loud noises
So I'm probably not in Peloponnesia
Or I'm not dealing with Romans and Terrians
What am I dealing with when I explore at the target this particular aspect right here? I
Find that I'm no longer
Outside in a sunny area with large groups of people running back and forth
With shields and chariots and different kinds of chariots. I'm now in a dark structure
With flickering lights
People sitting very quietly
watching ahead
This all of these aspects a
b c and d
deal with making a movie
The director's chair and the boom
All of these things deal with making the movie and this aspect that's over here at a distance this darkened room
with lots of people and
this flat
Vertically oriented screen is the movie theater
So I can't understand the totality of the meaning here if I just have that in isolation
Unconscious it's also going to give me the product of these people's labors
At the same time in my idea template
It's going to show me that this results in this at a distant place
Symbolically and a distance and another time
This is the movie being shown. This is the movie being made point is
This is the jump-off point for all of the detail work that we do as remote viewers
We've got the basic template here all the ideas the essentials are right there
this is our jump-off point for much of the detail work that we do in remote viewing and
This should take us about for most problems in average of an hour to an hour an hour to an hour and 15 minutes to put together
On complex problems. It may take us longer an hour and a half
Possibly an hour and 45 minutes. What does that mean to you the viewer?
I've already told you that you should not work more than 45 minutes by yourself on a single session
That means you're going to have to split your problem up into two sessions
Don't work longer than 45 minutes by yourself and the session
Come back in and begin a new session and another at another time of the day or the next day and explore the other aspects
Beginning with the movement of exercise the other aspects of your initial stage three
And then combine all your work into an idea template
Okay questions the
You said on all of the s4 tables stage four tables go two-thirds the way down the page
Is that right? Are we then supposed to take a break at each no each time or just the first one? No
No, only let me reiterate a good question
Take no more in any get in any 45 minute session. Make sure you take no more than one break
One three to four minute break about 20 to 25 minutes into the session
More breaks than that are disruptive to the session
That's why one of the reasons why you should you should work in an area where there are no disruptions
Where you can be assured of working undisturbed for about 45 minutes
So then what do we do once we get two-thirds of the way down the page on say the second stage four table?
Okay, where we go at the two-thirds point
Stop go back using your first stage three sketch or freehand sketch as a reference
select another
stage three
Aspect and perform another movement exercise
This will give you idiot ground new set of stage twos and a new analytical sketch
Then a new stage four two-thirds of the page
Continue in that fashion for 45 minutes with a maximum of one three or four minute break
Produce your idea template in the fashion that I've outlined and your session and
very very critical
Very critical to your success is the following when you write
and
End means and in those circumstances go back and modify change
Add anything to your session data. This is a fatal error
Even the best of sessions will be ruined if you go back in and you add or modify your session data
Once you end the session
You are no longer in TRV structure and any of your data none of your data after that
No perception can be trusted
Imagination your creative imagination is back attempting to analyze your data at this point
You're no longer in a direct knowledge direct perception mode
So even if you say oh gosh, I edited something out
I should I there was something I forgot to write down or don't do it
Don't do it. It's the most it's the most subtle of excuses that your own mind is giving you to go back and ruin this session
It's your it's our analytical minds that were perhaps even our egos that are trying to mold this
Into a preconceived notion or an idea about what the answer should be as opposed to the truth
That's represented in this work because that's what we're doing here with discerning truth
I like to just go ahead with the template now. Let's move on to an idea template on page 16. Okay, do you want to orient your paper that way? Okay?
IT
And here is your original stage three
It's fine target sketch
State or that's page six or we're looking for page five
This is your first stage three and that is of
the
What you felt was the most significant aspect and we called it the target by definition
so
Word what do you want to draw that the same scale or change the scale? I'm gonna put it here. Okay?
Inside
outside
The attendant the stage four is that accompanying that are these or anything there that you'd like to use that you feel are important
You want to tack on to the target?
Okay
Person worry
Intense
Freed
Do these data go with that? Yes, it's a person male
old
Okay
I'll move on to aspect a aspect a this is a
How does that fit in there like that?
Okay, I'm fitting pieces of a puzzle together
I
�
Which
Emense
immense
Outside
Okay
Company has for they there the important ones want to tack on
Pleased content hopeful
Oh, yeah, so she is there content
Hopeful
There's people
people
here
There's people there
And this is structure is a brick
Break label it building
brick
And these people are having a meeting important meeting
Important meeting and do we have the and these people are intimidated
I
Hopeful
Okay, let's move on to the page 12. This is the one that you needed two pages
P
Well
This here is this
Okay, in fact
But it needs to be inside there
Although that is this here
Going like this
That's outside
This is this and this is this okay, and then on page 12
There's a dividing thing down here. All right
Here are
our stage fours
Okay
I'm sure afraid lonely
I'm sure
afraid
lonely
Small building
Two groups of people
Two groups of people group here in a group. Yeah, okay
Labeled them number one and two in square brackets so we can refer to them later. One
Two, okay in this side it's
Tempers
Explosive
Wanting
Hungry
There's a small object
It's a female
Young female
This is like a table where?
Okay
The other aspect
See
Here it is in your stage three there
How do you want to juxtapose it now? How do you want to juxtapose a key aspect see to that sketch of your idea?
Well, I feel as if I want to do this
This is
And
This is
Motion
It's white
Okay, and the attendant stage four data
Okay
It's intense. This is in here, okay?
Intense
Enclosed
Red
Green
Blue
Okay, let's extend the ideal template and the end the session at 1245. I think that's about
54 minutes into the session including breaks now
I we're going to write a summary of the data and then before we do our analysis
Oh
Oh
We're going to have to eventually analyze our data
When we hit the idea template we have to do two things
We've constructed our idea template it's now 45 minutes and counting we have all these elements in here
tacked on with all our stage fours
And it's time to what?
It's time to end the session
so right end on the paper
And a time
And then don't walk away yet sit there for a moment and write the word summary
Now I want you to summarize your data
And I want you to spend some time and work and effort in summarizing your data
Brief statements
First of all, do we know anything about the site? Let's say we're dealing with one geographical location
Well, let's talk about the site first
the site
Is outside
The terrain
Is sandy
Hilly
It is hot
And humid
There are two groups of people here group number one is experiencing anxiety
and fear
they are sitting
in a structure group number two is
AOL signal like they are organized
Watching group number one
Gives me the AOL of soldiers or policemen
Or or captors something like that. On and on and on. Where am I getting this data?
I'm getting it from my idea template
Mostly from my idea template use the data that's in the idea template. That's where I'm getting this from
All of these words that I trusted to put down here and tack in there
That's how I'm where I'm getting to write the summary
Now the following are very important points
Do not under any circumstances use a word in this summary that is not present in the idea template
And don't make any changes to your data whatsoever
I mean two things by that
Don't go ever go back into your idea template and make a change. Don't say for instance
Oh gee, I forgot to say that there's flags over here and the flags appear to be this that in the other country
Don't ever go back and do that. That's a fatal error in technical remote viewing
Because you're out of structure
You ended the session you're not in structure any longer. Your creative imagination is free to roam once again
Don't go back and make changes
Also, unless I say hilly here
Well in my data, I actually didn't say hilly
I remember that I looked back at my paper and I said well the land it has ups and downs
Ups and downs aren't necessarily hilly
So
Can't use this
The land it has ups and downs. That's what I can use can't use this word because it didn't appear in our data
Up here
Now after you write a summary
This is what we know so far the data in the summary is at least 80 percent correct
A single remote viewer a single train remote viewer
Who knows how to correctly produce an idea template?
The summary data will be about 80 percent correct
Somewhere in here will be a 20 percent error, right?
We can boost this
This for a likelihood rate the 80 percent
Accuracy rate up to about 85 percent if we do one more thing
If we go back and we comb through the summary data and ask ourselves
Do you really trust all of these datum each datum?
Would you hang your hat on this datum?
Would you hang your hat on this percept?
Does this really are you really sure and confident that this is correct?
If the answer to those questions are always yes, don't change anything
But suppose I said uniforms down here
Group one individuals in group one are wearing uniforms
And I go back and say I'm not really sure about that now. I'm having second thoughts. So that was correct
Don't put it in there
If you go back with a fine-tooth comb and you comb through this and you take out things that you'd have a lesser confidence in
You can boost that probability rate the likelihood that the data is correct up from 80 to about 85 percent nominally
So it's worth the extra trouble to do that
Okay
I once again the the question to ask at this point is not
Can I trust my data?
The question that we asked first is was I as a remote viewer in my session was I in
Structure that I follow the rules was my pace correct that I object to find my
AOLs that I drop my pen when I had AIs and wait for them to dissipate drop the pen when I had
An AOL and take the break and make sure that was gone and throw it in the trash was I doing everything correctly if I was
80 percent 80 percent correct, which is pretty darn good. It's a historic first. Let's face it
That's good stuff your tax dollars at work paid off. Well
and
That's the only question you should ask then you can trust your data to that extent
If you're working with other people
You have you have implemented controls
Of other individuals like yourself are working blind blind now. Suppose you
Know what the queue is the queue is you're attempting to look at the coup d'etat the remote view
The cause or the origin of the coup d'etat
last night in country x
You pick the project and you're working it by yourself if that's the case then you know what about the summary data
Drop it down to 65 percent or less
If you're working it blind
80 percent
Okay, now
If you get this task to a friend who is a train remote viewer
And they provide you with a summary
And they have worked this blind by themselves solo
Without any front loading data not knowing what the target is at all and their data overlaps with yours
It's mutually corroborating using that kind of a control
100
You can trust it to that degree and may not be that many
pieces of data
That mutually corroborate, but the ones that say the same thing
That's the degree that you can trust it. That's the way we work in sci-tech as a team
We double check triple check our work and we have we input
We institute control measures and that's one of the controls after we work in a very controlled monitored session
We farm out the same project solo to an experience remote viewer to do solo
Then if we still get the same data, that's when
The president of the company signs his name to the data and saying this is correct. It goes forward then we can trust that
but but
If you start to have preconceived notions if you think you know the answer ahead of time
And you don't have the self-discipline to keep that out of the session
Your data is going to drop back down to 65 percent level
Keep your preconceived notions your biases about what you think the answer is out of the problem every case
Okay, that's the biggest one of the biggest pitfalls in remote viewing is people take
Assuming the answer ahead of time and trying to pigeonhole and squeeze their data into their answer
And now uh, we're going to write a summary of the data and then before we do our analysis
Okay 17 page 17 summary. Okay. You can only use the words in your summary
now
It's important to know that the stage twos that you used to
To scaffold your way into the the sketches on each of the key aspects
Those can be used also if we wanted to do a very detailed work
But I want you to write a general summary right now. What what's going on here?
Tell me about the site
How would you summarize your data there are two groups of people in
Start right
There are two groups
of people
In the same building
In the same building
One group
Being
Pleased
Hopeful
Content
Intimidated
The second group
The second group
Tempers
Explosive
Unsure
Or hungry
This just looks like a man-made object. Okay, that's what it's called that
A man-made object
A man-made
Objects
We're moving
Into the building
Um
People in it there are people in this man
Moving into the building with people
In it
Where are the people they're inside the man-made object
Are you uh, let's see. Where is our
Let's go back and take a look. Well, maybe
They they're not inside it because they're not inside it here
Right that they they were probably on the building or in the building. You see how it overlaps because I didn't have that
That's right. You can't I didn't have anything in there
So what you've got is an overlay if we took a transparency and overlaid this
with
This like that
That would be a better way to do that. Right. Okay. Yeah, they were different. Now it's penetrated in and then
I'll overlay the transparency. You have that right idea
Okay, so a man-made object moving into the building with people nearby
By worrying afraid
Intense
Is a a male old person
Okay
Now although the first stage three is a symbolic abstract sketch
This is more symbolic than it is abstract. It's uh, it's it takes on more of a symbolic character
but uh
I've noticed that the structure is penetrating this side of what you what you perceive of as a building
Where a group one is
Yeah, okay
And that's important to know
Okay, so the man made look where it's pointing the man
made
The structure and it's coming in from above penetrates from above
Into the group one
Okay, we didn't explore aspects d and e we could pick up more information
Well, but we're about an hour into the session and that's about as much time as we can stay alert
And therefore keep our data. Uh, good
Um, is there anything uh that you left out of the summary? You want to add?
The the people appear to be moving they could be moving
I'm not sure. Okay. That may or may not be important. Now. Let's do one more thing
Let's do some error trapping
The summary data based upon this work is 80 percent is 80 percent correct
We know that somewhere there's a 20 percent error rate in the work that we do as individuals
So we can sometimes bring that 80 percent correctness up to nominally 85 percent by going back through your summary
And asking yourself is are there any data in there that you feel of lesser there are of lesser confidence
Would you go back through that with a fine-tooth comb and and would you want to eliminate anything as not being
As high a competence as the other pieces of data
Or do you feel like that's you're you're you're competent in your data?
I think so. Okay. Why don't you draw a line down here then?
And in about 10 minutes
I'm going to ask you to come back and analyze your work because you're still by locating
And we need you to be fully focused back here in the room so that we can apply logic
Your analytical mind is now what we want to apply logic to the analysis
But you can't analyze when you're still focused somewhere else. Okay. Okay, so take a take a break and we'll resume
Okay, we're gonna announce it
Oh
So
Finally you're going to have to analyze your data
You've gone through all that work
You got an idea template
You've summarized your data effectively now it's time for an analysis
Don't attempt to analyze your work
Until you take a break
after you write your summary
Wait at least 10 minutes or more
Get out of the room leave all your work on the day on the table or your desk and go away
Because if you've been working for an hour, it's going to take you about 15 minutes to refocus
Here back in the room because you're still by locating a lot of your attention
Or is still wrapped up around the pattern
Of information that is the target out there in the collective unconscious in the matrix
Wait till you're completely refocused and rent the same with any other job
And after I do take a break, it's going to take me a while to collect my thoughts
To refocus my attention on my local surroundings
Remember that one thing that remote viewing uses is attention management
Managing your attention replacing most of it
Using the structure replacing most of your attention on a very specified behavior
Managing your behavior managing your attention
And and it's it's the focus is on something that's not right here in front of you. It's somewhere in another dimension
So you're coming back from this other dimension of mind
Back here to time space once again
Where the rubber beats the road you need to completely refocus because
The analysis is going to concern itself with the real world problem. So we need to come back to the real world
After 10 or 15 minutes sit down
Look at your idea template. Look at your summary and say, okay, what do I have?
What am I dealing with I've collected all these pieces of the puzzle
I've stayed in structure. What am I dealing with?
You know what that reminds me of in many ways?
First of all, let me talk about trust trusting structure
instrument flight
When you're flying at night, you're only using your instruments
You may be flying from Dallas to Nome, Alaska
non-stop at night
And you have to know how your instruments much must work our instrument is our body
If we have a balanced mind and body that works
We have to be able to to know how to use the instruments and that's this trv structure
The structure itself is the it's the knowledge of how to use those instruments
Because we can't see where we're going
You know, we but a darn well know how to navigate and use those instruments. Your instruments have to work. We can't have a hangover
You know, we we we can't be overly hungry
Our our the our machine has to be in good working order
And so we're flying we're flying by the seat of our pants. No, we're flying by using these tried and true instruments
time-tested instruments so that when if everything has gone, right
We look at our paper and and and our navigational chart and it says that we should be over Nome, Alaska right now
We look out the window and into the darkness and we see those lights those lights should be the lights of Nome, Alaska
If we stay in structure
That's trusting the system. That's what I do. I trust the system to that degree to the degree that a pilot trusts his or her instruments
Analysis point about analysis and remote viewing is this another analogy using flight at this time a photo reconnaissance flight
It's very similar
analogously to photo a photo reconnaissance flight if I the remote viewer pilot
Look at the flight plan, which is the trv structure and I follow these rules
I fly at
2,000 feet for
500 miles I make a left bank and I do this and I do that and I follow my flight plan
And my mission is photo reconnaissance
My job is not to get interested in what's down there or get caught up in the drama
Because I will crash and burn where at most lose the target. I'll lose my way
The camera in the belly of my aircraft, that's its job
That's what we're doing. The pen and the marks on paper are the camera. It's recording what we're doing as we're
Flying along very busy going point by point by point through this structure. We're too busy to get concerned about what's going on down there
Or get caught up in the drama if there is any
When we land the plane and we develop the film
Then we can keep back and say
What do we have comfortably?
When we do that, we're going to do it by deduction
Intelligent guessing we're going to make some intelligent guesses about what we are dealing with
Okay, that's what this is if our idea template says, whoa
We've got our summary says we have we have two groups of people one is running
Running through a built-up area another is in front of it appearing to be running in the same direction
And this is an urban type of an environment
That's what we got as a result of our remote viewing session
What might be be dealing with in terms of real world terminology intelligent guesses
number one
If you can't think of any go through the encyclopedia from a to z and say oh this might fit this might fit
This might fit
Because we're going to use this to refine our targeting
For our next session
So I might be dealing with what well, I might be dealing with a war
Hmm. I might be dealing with a riot
How about the running of the bulls pamplona?
Why not?
Let's see what else anything else you can think of a marathon
Okay, anything else
I can't think of anything right now now
So let's go take a look at these and see if they're justified. There's our data. There's our summary
justify this data
All right, how about a war? Okay
Generally speaking it could be a war. What would we have to have to meet this criterion of war this this definition of war
We'd have to have guns
Soldiers people attacking another the intent to harm or something like that
Do we get anything in the summary? I didn't see any of that in my summary
Let me go back and check through all of my data now, which means laying it all out on the table
All on my stage four is everything and going back in and seeing if I missed anything
No, I didn't miss anything except one thing over here on one of my pages way back on page nine
I had the aol of conflict
Hmm, I wonder
Conflict I don't have any weapons
I don't I didn't pick up anything like that, but he did have an aol of conflict
And I didn't trust it. So I put it down as aol but
I better leave this up here
Because I do have a datum
even though it's aol
There's a possibility that I might have missed something that I may really be dealing with. So let's leave it up. How about a riot?
well
Probably the same thing as a war really in many ways. I'll leave that up there too. Running of the bulls. Well
What do I have in my summary data?
There's a group of people running after another group of people who is running. So I don't have any bulls
You know if the people are all on feet and the other group that's running appears to be people too, or was it?
Were they people? I got him. What were my emotions? The emotions were frightened
Well, who's on first? Is the bulls chasing the people or whatever bottom line was
I mean when I got a description of this other group of people
They were wearing clothes and I know that they were and I know they were humanoid and I didn't pick up any animals
There's no bulls. So that's out. My data doesn't support this particular deduction
All right, so by inference I'm going I'm moving along here a marathon
Well, yeah, maybe
maybe but
Hmm the emotions that the people had were one group was frightened
There was horror involved and it was fear and fright
Probably not a marathon. So that's out too. So my best guesses
Are a riot or a war?
I'll go back through all of my data and see if there's anything that could eliminate one of these possibilities
And it doesn't appear that I can't I don't have enough information
So what do I have to do? I have to go back in
At another time waiting at least two hours
You shouldn't work as a as a trainee on remote feeling. You shouldn't be working by yourself more than once a day
Twice a day at the most as a trained remote viewer twice a day at the maximum
Spread it out as much as possible
I'm going to have to go back in here and if I really want to know whether I'm doing with a war or riot
I'm going to have to specifically concentrate on
What is a war and tale?
Usually
Machines and guns and things like that helmets and soldiers with uniforms or at least
The idea of a commander or command authority if people don't wear uniforms
As opposed to a riot, which is a different social phenomenon
And I'm going to have to go back in and explore this. I may have to refine my targeting
But before I do anything, I've got to do one more thing
This is the answer to the problem. This is a result of all my labors. What was the question?
What was the question? Oh, yeah, and so we see this in remote feeling people forget
When they when they say I don't know what I have here
My first question is what was the question? What was the target? Oh, yeah, let's go back and look at the cue
The cue may have been
Well, let's say
Kudaita and Country X
Now we have to be careful about Kudaita. We know that we want to we want to look at the one that occurred last night in Country X
But suppose Country X has Kudaita's all the time and changes hands like as many times as the Italian government say has
Since World War two
Or whatever, let's make sure that we inform the collective unconscious that we're dealing with the one that just happened
Okay, last night. So
We want to qualify this with last night
We have to be careful here very careful about last night
Are we sure that the collective unconscious understands what we mean about last night?
Keep your fingers crossed because it may not but it probably does
So last night, okay, that's probably good enough our this plus our intent
Intent is probably good enough. Why is intent important? Let's not fool ourselves here
Intent's really important in terms of of our mind and our mind being hooked into a collective unconscious
So intent is worth something in this game. Okay
Kudaita Country X last night. What about it? We just want to describe it
Was there anything else that we asked
How about uh cause
Well, this is a social phenomenon and so this may be too but that's what we were exploring
Whether or not the queue was loose or tight succinct
Whether or not those were the case here was the queue
This is what the question was and this is what we produced after an hour and a half's worth of work
We're dealing with a war or riot
Now if you and I know
That this was we were front loaded with the question and that's all that we got
Right here. We really didn't gain a lot of information
But it's a great training target if you give it to somebody
Blind because it's rich with data and it's a good practice target. Okay
as opposed to
Kudaita Country X last night
Leader
And that one more qualifier present location
Now that's a more specific question
Who led the coup and where is this person right now
Dead or alive and where
That's an interesting question and we can we can easily solve that
So in that case our data would probably would probably indicate that there is a person in a room somewhere or in a house
Or we may not have a person at all. We may have a flat open land with a bush here
And nothing else, but we may have a target down there below a ground level
those kinds of ideas
you see so
There's a present location or
Here's a present location standing around with a table and chairs and other people and this happens to be
Looking down from 500 feet above when we talk about target geometries
We'll talk about how to to describe the physical geographic location of a place
like that
But anyway, look at the question
Before you before you start and put your pen down wonder what you have here. What was the question?
Okay
Okay, the question I I have is the only question that any viewers should have
Uh of themselves or uh of the person that was being monitored. Were you in structure?
How was your structure? You felt that you were instructed? Yes
You started to bilocate. You actually started to bilocate very very early in the session. There was an there was an ai
that was affecting you and um
I think as a monitor that you were having difficulty
Objectifying the ai and I think that if you didn't do that
The quality of your work might not have been as good as it was
So if you catch yourself in the future really reacting and getting caught up into something
We don't have all the details. We don't as viewers know what's going on out there, but we can feel our reaction to it
Objectify go do a self diagnostic
What am I feeling right now and then get it down as an ai and let it dissipate before you pick the pen back up
Otherwise, I I think it's a good session
We didn't explore all of the aspects only the ones that you prioritize first the target something that we call the target
A B and C
And I agree. I think your structure was pretty good. Um, so let's get down to um
Let's get down to analysis
Let's make some intelligent guesses about what you're dealing with
In terms of the answer to this question
Essentially, what would be a guess number one?
Guess number one is there's some object some projectile
That is
Uh hitting a group of people
Penetrating a building where there is a group of people
There's two groups of people symbolically represented in the in the template. They may not necessarily be in the same building
Uh, uh, I see
What's this? Is this a rocket or a missile? Is that that's I mean that's what it looks like. That's what it looks like
Yeah, most definitely why is it's pointing specifically to group number one. That's right
Symbolically, so that's important and this group over here
Um, I definitely separated from
This group of people by that by this symbolic border. Yeah, I understand
the uh
You don't know where you are geographically. Is that correct?
No, so we have to perform another session to to establish that most require higher level skills that are taught in module three
Uh, do you have a time? Do you know if you're in the past present or future?
I don't know we have to do that in higher level using higher level skills also in the subsequent session
And do you think that we understand the conditions under which
That this is what that caused this event
Well, my it appears that they're
They're the group that is all happy et cetera
have something to do with this object
Going towards this group of people that are
really intense
um
fearful et cetera
but
This group here are fearful of this object and these people are not fearful of it. So I see
Uh, but we don't know that they're fearful of this object. We just know that they're fearful
Yeah, they may be fearful of this other group. This other group you said was happy, but they don't look too happy
they're hungry and
You say they they're not too happy, but they seem to be in a better state than this
I see in this one. Okay, since this is the answer to a question
We need to go back and see what the question was
And the question is unfortunately
This
Yeah, no
That's why you were kept in the blind because for you to have known something this powerful without you would have
Not been able to succeed at doing this as well as you did the uh, the the actual
This is a project and this is one of the first remote viewing probes in a topical search
Next nuclear weapon use
And that's qualified with mass casualties and intent to kill
But what it appears that you've got here is a good indication that the next use and we don't have a timeline
Of a nuclear weapon in the world will be from the air
Not a terrorist attack on the ground or or backpack nuclear weapon or suitcase nukes somewhere in the city in the united states
But an air attack on a missile
So we will conduct several more sessions with viewers in the blind to know nothing about this project to
To look for corroborating information and also to establish a timeline. When will this event happen?
Under what conditions will it happen so we can look at those conditions and have an
Indicator as to when this event will occur and then we'll back it up with some higher level
Techniques that sci-tech uses to set the status specific time
What do you think about your work?
Well, it seems to be right on signal for me
Do you understand why that your ai's were perhaps so so strong at the beginning of the show? Yeah
The idea far away was was in there too. Yeah
So we'll have to continue with more sessions and unfortunately
This could have been this particular cue could have been a false premise
For instance next nuclear weapon use mass casualties and tend to kill that if
In the future they that this may not be an event at all
If this was not an event if if we went if we
Engineered the search and it was a false premise that there would be no nuclear weapon use
Then collective unconscious would have painted an entirely different picture
And we would have seen based upon your work here
We would have been able to establish that the cue would have been nonsense a nonsensical cue for some reason
But in this case, uh, it's clearly evident that it's not that we're dealing with a dangerous situation. It was a good job. Excellent work
You
