Before I talk about stage three, I want to introduce something that's going to become
very, very important to you. And it's a term that you'll grow to hate and to know well.
And it's this, A-O-L, analytical overlay. In technical remote viewing, analytical overlay
is two things. One, it's our imagination. Our creative imagination, always working
rightfully so. It never stops. And it's our enemy in remote viewing. It's our friend,
otherwise. At this building we're on fire right now, and there were bars, steel bars
on the windows. We have to employ creative imagination real fast to help us get the
heck out of here. So it's a valuable thing. We can think of all the movies we've seen
or whatever put together all those permutations, and maybe if we're lucky, come up with a solution.
So if we didn't know, in our knowledge base, didn't hold the key to get out of the building
or way to get out, we'd have to employ creative imagination. But in the remote viewing process,
it's our enemy. Two is analysis. Our mind trying to make sense out of the data, constantly
trying to put the pieces together, trying to make sense out of it, analyzing. Well,
if something is, let's say stage two, if something is yellow and curved and sweet, it must be
a banana. Or it's like a banana. That's a red flag in remote viewing. A comparator,
a word like like, seems like or it's like. And we declare that. How did that arise? It
arose because our analytical mind took these terms, took these ideas, put them together
in the package and said, I know what that is. It's a banana. Okay. Now we don't care
if the target is a banana or not. If we arrive at that conclusion by virtue of this process
as early as stage two, we declare it as analytical overlay. We know that our mind did that. We
dump this. This becomes trash. We throw it in the trash. That's analysis. And one of
our big red flags is the word like. Well, it's like this or it's like that or it's like
the Eiffel Tower. It's metallic and it's high. Well, it must be a tower. AOL, we declare
it as an AOL. This little dashed line stands for a break. We're breaking away from the
signal line, breaking away from the data stream. And we're declaring this as a product of our
own creative imagination and analysis. Banana. When we do this, we drop our pen momentarily
that reinforces the idea that we've broken away, that we don't want that. That's trash.
It's feedback to ourself. Pick the pen back up and continue. Over on this side of the
house, we're dealing with something else, imagination. Our imagination usually presents
to us in the form of visuals. This is an idea first before it becomes a visual. This is
a visual first. Alright? Now, if the visual in your mind's eye is static, not moving
and clear, if it's static in that you can return to it in your mind's eye over and over
again and look at it over and over again, it is always imagination. Always static and
clear. But if the visual is moving, dim or blurry, and most of all, fleeting, if you
just had it and it's gone, that's your target. Okay? And we have lots of tricks like that
in this business too. This is analytical overlay. AOL can be, in stage four, AOL can
be a little bit insidious. It can infiltrate. You have to be careful. So whenever you have
an AOL, you must declare. By that, I mean, say you declare AOL, declare AOLs and don't
edit. Every single concept that comes into your head, whatever goes into our wooden heads,
the moment that it comes in, it must be adjudicated. There is always a place in TRV structure to
put that information down. In other words, don't hold on to any concept or to any percept.
If you're holding on to percepts that are correct dimensions or colors or something
like that, you're editing. And if you continue to edit, you'll clog up the outbox. There's
a chute, figuratively speaking, that we have to keep pulling the data out from the chute.
If we don't do that, it's going to clog up. Again, allegorically and figuratively speaking,
and we won't be able to get any data out or the data that we're not pulling out will
color and overlay subsequent data. Everything has to be declared, either as an AOL or as
data. Every concept that comes in your head has got to go down on the paper. In stage
one, two, and three, more than likely, it's going to be AOL because you do not know that
much about what you're dealing with in stage one, two, and three. You just don't know.
You're cutting a swath. Think of it as a building. Stage is one, digging a hole. Two, laying
the foundation. Stage three, which I'm about to talk to you about after a break, is putting
up the superstructure of the building with all the scaffolding. It's just a piece of
ugly grotesque junk. Not until four on higher stages is this beautiful work of architecture
in front of you. All this stuff is the work that we have to do to get there. You don't
even know what the building is going to look like with all the playwood scaffolding and
cement laying around it. That's equivalent, analogously, to stages one, two, and three.
The creation of the work that's required to get us to the target so that we can derive
detail and specificity. Editing means holding on to data. Well, I didn't put that down.
I knew that, but I didn't put it. That's usually the way it arises. A trainee will say,
well, I knew that there was something there that was moving vertically or rotating, but
I didn't put it down. That will cost you. It will cost you in terms of descriptiveness.
Not declaring our AOLs. This will cost you the entire session if you're not careful,
but it won't because it's a self-correcting process. You can make an occasional mistake
like this, but we're going to get you out of trouble by introducing you to some methods
that will allow you to redeem yourself.
Thank you.
Stage three is kinesthetic target contact.
In stage three, we're going to do some sketching. In stage three, we're going to be attending
to two areas. One is motion at the target, and we are going to be performing movements,
pure movements. In stage one and two, we do not know how our mind is acquiring the target,
nor do we care. All we care is to grab it, grab a handhold at the site, grab the target.
We don't care what tact our unconscious takes as it comes into the target. In stage three,
when we perform a movement exercise, we are going to dictate the exact position that we
want unconscious to receive the physical target from, exactly. Motion. In stage three, we
can detect motion at the target very easily. If we miss the idea of motion as part of the
ideogram, motion has its own gestalt. If we miss that, we're going to pick it up in stage
three without a doubt, the type of motion that's at the target. Rotating, spinning fast, slow,
wavy across. A wavy across line, sketched as an archetypical symbol, in stage three,
instead of stage one, could be a radio wave, an ocean wave, the rise and fall of a culture
even, when we get into very advanced targets.
Stage three, put S3 at the top of the page. In stage three, I'm going to ask you to sketch
the key aspects of the target. This sketch takes no more than 15 seconds. It's your body's
rendition of the target, and it's a free hand sketch that's executed in the following
way. It'll look something like this. And that'll be about it. Something like that. Now, you
may think that that's pretty worthless, but that is probably the most valuable sheet of
paper in the 25 pieces of paper that you'll produce in an hour or two, an hour and 15
seconds. This sketch holds the answer to the problem or the key aspects of your target.
There's nothing superfluous here. These are all critical elements that have to be explored.
If you put these archetypical things together, like we will later in what we call an idea
template, you will have all the essential elements of information regarding your target
or the solution to a problem, and I am not kidding. But anyway, this is the kind of sketch
and this is what your sketch will look like, something like this. When you execute a sketch
like that, I'm going to ask you, okay, these are key aspects at your target or your site.
We call this a site diagram. This is your site. Roughly speaking. Now, I'm going to
ask you to explore these aspects in and around your paper for the following thing. Is there
an aspect somewhere in and around your paper, in and around these key aspects that's more
significant? Use your intuition. Use your body. Does your pen want to go to something
that's more significant than other things? And when it goes and gravitates to a certain
area, don't get your mind in the way here. Your mind wasn't in the way when you sketch
this. Don't get in the way now. Put an X there along with some brackets. When you do that,
your body is telling you, okay, this is really the key aspect and this becomes your target.
The target is at the site and these other elements provide context. This is the meaning.
This is the context that's necessary for the meaning. It may not be a physical target.
It could be something that's esoteric or metaphysical or strictly ideational that your research.
Ideas have a reality all their own. It doesn't have to be a physical thing that you're researching.
But we call this site, nevertheless, even though it implies physicality. Okay, this
is your target. Now, I'm going to ask you to try to order, prioritize these other aspects
and label them with A, I think this is important, and then next this B and then next this C.
These are key aspects at your site and we're going to explore them each in turn in very
special ways, in particular ways, beginning with the target. You may know certain things
about your target and your site at this juncture. This is the first time you can truly ask yourself,
what am I dealing with? It's the first time you may really be able to know that you have
something that you can hang a label on in real world terms. For instance, what do I mean
by that? This straight line across the paper down here is probably land, if it's there.
It won't always be there, but it's probably land. If it's there, it means that unconscious
feels that's an important aspect of your type of site. I want you to write that down. What
are your thoughts, are you dealing with? I have land. What else? This is an interface
of more than one gestalt. I don't know what that is. This is man-made, right angle, it's
there, it's most obviously a man-made, we'll call it structure, as a gestalt, as a name
by definition. I'm not sure what that is, that's about all that we may know that we
have, except for that. When you have a circle on a lips, similar to this in your stage three,
it does constrain the possibilities to only a few things. You may be dealing with a large
circular feature, the same thing that the stage one ideogram, standard ideogram represented,
but most commonly, you have a life form. But this time, it's a living thing. In stage one,
if I have a loop like that, this loop converts to either one of two things in a life form.
That loop, about 20% of the viewers will put a straight line like that, put down that on
the paper, that may be a person. But almost always, at least 80% of the cases, you're
going to have that. And that is the archetypical form of the gestalt represented by this ideogram
for a person or another living thing, an amoeba, a cow, a horse, a giraffe, a person. Okay?
There's one more thing that it could be. It could be a group of people. But then, your
stage one ideogram should have been an activity ideogram. And your circle will be a little
bit bigger. Okay? So there are certain judgments that we can make this early, not prematurely,
but this early in the game, at this juncture, about what these symbols stand for. And that
gives us some sort of a hook into reality. We've gone from this murky, dark soup of
the unconscious down into the real. We're starting to get down here on terra firma.
We need more target contact. That's why we begin a series of motion and movement exercises.
So as soon as we have this first stage three sketch, and we have labeled various key aspects,
the target, A, E, and C, we begin to explore these in a very unique way. And we've analyzed
the sketch. This time when we analyze, we're actually looking at those features and determining
what we're dealing with. If we know what we have, we put them down. Here we have a structure.
Here we have a life form, living, and a structure. Gestalt could be a city. And that's about
all that we can safely say at this juncture. We're now going to explore this in a systematic
way, very systematic, beginning with the target. We're going to perform a movement exercise.
We're going to use passive words to evoke a new ideogram. And the passive words go like
this. On our paper, we write these words from the top of the target. That's this. And we
can abbreviate something should be perceivable. That's the word that we use. Something should
be. That's passive. We're not saying, tell me what's perceivable at the top of the target
for other technical reasons that we'll go into. We don't do that. The moment that we
write this, we produce another ideogram of some sort, just like we did in stage one.
And we're going to decode this. We're going to get a new set of stage twos. But this time
the stage twos will be associated not with the whole site, but with only the target.
This word top is very important here. Top is like putting your feet on top of the target.
You're connecting with the target. That's why your subsequent stage twos, you know are
associated with the target. When we talk about target geometries momentarily, about actually
developing the size and shape of the target, it's scale. We're going to move the viewer
away from the target at a distance. And then the stage twos, you're going to be picking
up other stage twos that might not necessarily be the target. There may be something interesting,
some other things that are interesting around the target too. But that's why we use the
word top. Top connects us with the target. So we use that word. Get some more stage twos.
And at the end of our stage twos list, we'll have some dimensions. Perhaps long, cylindrical,
rotating, and slow at a speed. That's it. Now we're going to ask ourselves if there
are any new AIs. Do I have any new aesthetic impacts? And how does the site feel now? Curious.
And we proceed to do another sketch, another stage three sketch. But this one is not like
this. This first sketch, this all important sketch, is a freehand sketch. But all the
other stage three sketches until you get into higher level problems are analytical sketches.
And they go like this. S3. This is of the target, X. And it's an analytical sketch.
And I want you to take each one of these dimensions, beginning with long. And I want you to work
out the dimensionality of the target. Where's the long? The long is this way. The effort
and the work that you put into this pays off in stage four. Okay, where's the cylindrical?
The idea of cylindrical? Well, it's, I think it's here. I think it's there. It's the best
that I can do. You only do your best. So keep on trucking. Rotating. Where's the rotating?
Well, let's see. The rotating is this. Yeah, it's this way. It's this way. It's rotating.
There's something rotating that way. Okay. And where's the slow? Well, this is the slow.
It's rotating slowly. So this becomes an analytical sketch that's associated with our target.
And just prior to leaving this, we're going to ask one more thing of ourselves. Are there
any other aspects that we want to add to this? And we might say, well, um, yeah, there's
something there. And that's it. This is an analytical sketch that's associated with
the target. We're going to save this. We move from this sketch to stage four. We're now
going to explore the target, what we've labeled as the most significant feature, that by convention
we call the target. We're now going to explore this in stage four. Okay.
That's three.
That's one.
Sorry.
Did you put brackets around the exit?
I was keeping.
A, B, C, D, E, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C,
Are there any...
It's sort of a stage three summary.
Is there anything that any good thoughts, one of the eleven good thoughts,
or any of the eleven good thoughts that pop out at you that are clearly recognized along that sketch?
This is a man-made structure.
We have a man-made structure.
Write that down at the bottom.
Is there anything else?
This is...
Is that a life form?
No, it's a life form or a group of life.
Put down life, just the word life there.
And then we have one other.
You see it?
This is a movement.
Motion.
Motion.
So we have three recognizable yourselves in there.
The others are ambiguous.
Okay.
Movement.
From the top of the target, something should be perceivable.
Curving up, curving, looping down and around.
And around.
Curving up and across.
Very hard.
That's two.
White, green, blue, orange.
White, textures, airy, fluffy, hard, metallic, rough, edged.
Smells.
Rinse it.
Texts.
Better.
Temperature is hot.
Humid.
Dimensions.
Sounds.
Sounds.
Wash.
Washing.
Rushing.
Dimensions.
Round.
Long.
Diagonal.
Long.
Wide.
Thin.
Outside.
Inside.
Angles.
AI.
Weird.
H5.
S3.
Analytical.
Would you label, put the X there?
So it's easier to find that paper later on.
It's easier to find that paper later on.
Round.
Open.
Diagonal.
Long.
Wide.
Thin.
Outside.
Inside.
Angles.
Anything you'd like to add to that?
Okay, stage 4.
Stage 6.
Stage 4.
Next there too, so you do find that paper later on.
Stage 5.
Stage 6.
Stage 7.
Stage 9.
Stage 10.
Stage 11.
We're going to return to this stage three sketch, again, three times.
To explore aspect A, aspect B, and aspect C, we're going to put together pieces of a puzzle.
We're collecting pieces of a puzzle and we're going to assemble them when we're through
with all of this.
Right now, we're going to look at research this target in stage four, and it's four.
Another piece of paper, we allow room across the top of our paper for eight columns, beginning
with S, D, A, I, E, I, T, I, A, O, L, L, slash S. Very systematic methodical exploration
of the target.
The way we use these columns is they'll place a column for about four to six seconds.
If there's no information in this column, we'll move on to the next column.
The A-I column, we're going inside of our self to see if there's any new information.
Is there any change in the way that we feel about the target or the site wherever we're
at at the time?
Emotions take a little bit longer to percolate up through our sensorium.
About six seconds is a time delay between ideas and emotions.
These four columns are safe zones.
Just like your stage three and your stage two and your stage one information, you can trust
that all of your information in each stage four columns are pretty much always accurate
if you're in structure.
If you've attended the structure, you've moved a pace through your steps, you're in
the flow chart, you have not closed your eyes, you've kept your pen on the paper, you've
declared your AOLs, then you can trust this data, sensory impressions, dimensions, your
own feelings and other feelings at the target area.
He and I column are danger zones, very, very susceptible to AOL, and in fact this is where
your imagination is waiting to ambush you.
Use a lot of care and caution before you decide to place something in this column.
On that table, when we're using the pen to probe the different columns, do we more or
less, we start with the S column, then as we get our percepts, do we then more or less
let our intuition tell us which next column to probe?
Yes.
That's the preferred way of doing it.
So we can kind of float from one, but staying to the left, staying to the left for a column.
Try to stay to the left.
And just kind of let that float.
Yes.
And then probe and call.
Page 4, S4, page number, S-D-A-I-T-I-AOL, AOL slash S. Okay, my unconscious is directing
my pen.
I'm going to start to the left, placing information in the S column.
Anything there?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
And then I'm feeling the tug of my unconscious as it takes me to dimensions.
It wants to give me a dimension, it wants to give me another sound or a color, and now
I've got nothing here.
I wait for about four or five seconds, there's still nothing.
Now I pick up the pen and move it to the decon.
Is there anything there now that unconscious has for being no?
And I don't feel it tugging me either.
So I'm going to intentionally move my pen to the next column.
Check to see if I have any AIs.
Are there any emotions present in the target area?
There may be.
Instead of going into the T and the I column so soon, I'm going to go back and stay to
the left.
Any more sensory impressions?
Any more dimensions?
No.
Do I have any new AIs?
No.
Do I have any new EIs?
No.
It's tangibles.
Are there any things present in the target area?
I think there is an object, and the object is round, and there are people.
Whoops, I'm at the two-thirds point, down the page, stop.
Imagination will take this session away from you if you go past this point.
You'll collect up stage 4 data in this fashion, never proceeding past the two-thirds point.
Now we just left this analytical sketch.
You recall that we had something that looked like that, and it was rotating slowly.
That was our target, analytical sketch of the target.
We're now going in to explore the target using another tool, stage 4, in the following fashion.
You place your pen in that column right there.
This is called prompting information.
Prompting information here, we want any sensory information that's connected with the target.
Sensory information is the same thing that we had in stage 2, but this time two things
are happening when we touch this column.
The sensory information can come in in any order, sounds, burst, or whatever, because
what we're doing, we're allowing, remember in stage 1, and 2, and 3, dictated order.
We ordered the way that unconscious, the pace and the order, that unconscious delivered
up information.
Now what we do is we take unconscious off the leash.
The reason I use that as an analogy reminds me of a hunting dog or a drug dog.
You've got to get the dog to the site, but when it's at the site, you can't pull it
around anymore.
It has to do its job, so you take it off the leash and allow it to find a solution to the
problem.
That's what we're doing here.
We've gotten unconscious to the target, we've cut a swath to the target.
Now unconscious needs to do its work, and so we simply touch these columns and we perceive
this little signal leading us around to the solution to the problem.
It's going to give us information in its own way, very, very powerful our way.
We might have something like sensory impressions here are loud and metallic.
No, this is a texture second, sound first, texture second.
It's now off the hook.
It's delivering up information the way it wants to solve the problem, and it is the
master problem solved.
It's also our best friend.
You can trust it.
Loud and metallic.
That's it.
There's nothing else here.
Unconscious is saying, come over here to the dimension column.
Left to right, top to bottom, now long, and again cylindrical.
And hollow.
Okay?
Loud, metallic, I'm sorry, loud, metallic, long, cylindrical, hollow.
This is a cluster of information.
Remember in stage two unconscious was bouncing all around.
Now it's stopping and pausing.
For instance, instead of having black here and a green here, it's pausing here, taking
its time and saying there's something connected with your target that's black, metallic, hollow,
squat, low, and then it will move on to something else.
So this information forms a cluster.
It's a cluster of information in this case that relates to the description of a physical
object.
Would you write that on your sheet?
No, no, you don't write clusters, yes.
Dimensions are the same thing.
Only this time we have added dimensions.
Things like quantity, a few.
There are some things at the site and there are a few of them, or many, okay?
About six feet tall, things like that.
A.I., Aesthetic Impact, you remember that from stage three.
This time, however, when you put your pen there and you go down into yourself to ask
yourself how you're feeling about the target at this juncture in time, now your feelings,
your subjective ideas vis-a-vis the target will generally reflect quite accurately the
way you really would feel where you actually at the site.
So let me give you an example of the difference between A.I. in stage two, at the end of the
stage two list and A.I. here in stage four, a hypothetical example.
I walk into a museum of art and across the hallway, let's say maybe 75 feet away, there's
a Rembrandt, maybe a big Rembrandt, and I might see it, not see all the detail, but
my initial reaction may be, wow, just wow.
And that would be my A.I. in stage two.
Now after I traversed, I did the work to traverse the museum floor, and now it's an in-your-face
type of a problem, and I'm looking right at this Rembrandt, close up.
My Aesthetic Impact could be, oh my God, and that's better than wow, or magnificent, or
it's fascinating, or intriguing, and this may be the way, this would be the way I would
really feel, me, Ed, vis-à-vis this particular thing, where I really am there.
Now although that subjective feeling, because it's an Aesthetic, it's valuable information
because the viewer is a known quantity, and we can use, in my business, we can use the
viewer as a dipstick, so to speak, how do you feel in this environment right here, where
all these people are running around in this chaos, wow, it's fun, it makes me feel excited,
and I'm having fun here.
Well we've just probably written off the idea of a war, so we're not dealing with a riot,
a war, or a fire.
We may be dealing with a carnival or a circus, even though there's chaos and movement, that's
a lot of information because we have a known quantity, a person doesn't like dead bodies
on a battlefield, saying that all this chaos is fun, and makes them feel fun, too.
Do you see what I mean?
So that's the way we would really feel.
That's another tidbit, another clue about what we may be dealing with.
Here's a new column, I'll separate these left for you, EIs, emotional impact.
What are the emotions present at the target, or the site, or whatever aspect I'm dealing
with?
These are mine, these are someone else's.
We'll pick up emotions long before we pick up the source of the emotions.
If there are people at a site, we'll pick up their emotions before we even perceive them
as physical things.
We'll get the emotions first.
Our antennae work really well that way.
We're very sympathetic and empathetic, all of us, to that.
Be careful, though, animals have emotions, too.
If you're picking up things like terror, or horror, or fear, or terror, you may be dealing
with a slaughterhouse or an abattoir, may not be humans, may be animal emotions.
Also be careful of another thing.
Emotions tend to percolate through time.
As in the case of site Gettysburg, truly consecrated ground, a terrible battle occurred there.
One remote view is Gettysburg right now.
It's getting dark in Gettysburg.
The park is closing.
We're on the west coast.
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania is on the east coast.
The park will close.
The National Monument will close.
There's nobody there.
But if we constrain the remote viewing, training to remote viewing Gettysburg, Pennsylvania,
the battlefield, right now, in the present, and we can do that using proper cueing, the
viewer may pick up on a tremendous amount of horror and terror, even though the actual
battle that consecrated that ground was hundreds of years ago, many, many decades ago.
So be careful when you're there.
How will you know?
Well, you won't find any people.
You will not be able to sketch or draw people.
You'll perceive the emotions.
If people were really there, we can sketch and draw the entire site the way it really
is, the physicality of the site.
Watch out.
Careful.
Those four columns to the left are safe columns.
Here's where imagination will ambush you.
These two columns right here.
This is your danger zone.
Tangibles, teeth, physical things, car, truck, building, camera, table.
Don't put anything down there like that unless you have justification for it.
What do I mean by justification?
Because the data over here, the elemental data, support and justify what you just put
down in the T-count.
Let's take something simple, like a table.
Table.
Tangible.
There's something of the site that is a table.
I'm saying there's a table there.
Well, if there's a table there, then you better darn well have something over here that's
flat, low, and solid, or something like that.
If you have something that's flat, low, and solid, then you can adequately justify a concept,
a higher-level concept like table.
This requires elemental data.
We build up.
We're not perceiving this, we're breaking out data from the target, from the Gestalt,
in pieces, in elements.
These elements come first, the little pieces.
They build up to the analytical table, the idea of table.
That's a higher-level concept.
And don't make the mistake of saying there's a table.
And in the intangible idea column, i is intangibles, table, chairs, people, meeting.
Meetings are a really high-level thing, just because there's tables, chairs, and the people.
That's fine.
There's tables, chairs, and there's people.
Don't call it a meeting unless you're certain.
We're going to teach you how to be certain.
But don't jump to any conclusions about the data.
Be safe and not sorry.
What's safe be?
Stick it here, AOL, saying, eh, that's too dicey.
I think I'm analyzing.
Move this over to the analytical overlay.
Drop your pen for a moment and pick the pen back up and move on.
So ideas about the target, tangibles, would be you would go from the general to the specific.
You might have a structure, and the structure may be a building, could be a house, maybe
a building, and the building may be a house.
So general to the specific, higher-level concept of the specific.
The gross characteristics first.
More detail, more detail, all right, specific to the detail.
That's the way that we naturally process the data.
It's we're coming closer, closer, closer to the target.
We're starting to narrow the focus down.
We can't have detailed things in these columns without justification and over here to the
left.
Not to be too pedantic, but let's say we have a person who is sitting, sitting is an
intended idea.
You can't touch sitting, so this goes in the icon, general rule of thumb.
Writing, and they are writing a letter, now where do we put letter?
Physical thing, all right?
Or they could be writing, and the next percept you might get is the idea of love.
Does love go there?
Is that the right place for love?
Might not be AOL, probably at this jump trip, it's coming fast enough, it probably goes
down into the data column, but if the person is let's say an author and writing a book,
then that's the right spot, because it's an intangible idea.
Person's merely writing about the idea of love, however, if it's a love letter, then
it goes over here, because the person is experiencing, the EIs, the emotions present at the target
are love, they're experiencing that, and they are writing about it, it goes in both places.
They are feeling love, they're writing their love, they're beloved, and they're writing
about love, so it goes in both places.
Here's another example.
If I am in stage four, and I objectify the word, Han, without any justification, any
elemental justification, I'm wrong.
You can suspect that this is AOL, but if I said wet, low, circular, horizontal, T, water,
then I may be justified in placing the idea of Pond on my paper.
I've judged my perception, stage four, our judgments.
I've judged my perception to be a pond, based upon justification, raw data, that supports
that.
Wet, low, circular, horizontal, water, I may now say pond.
Don't make assumptions.
Another one, don't assume that people who are wearing uniforms are soldiers.
Service workers wear white uniforms.
Other people wear uniforms.
In some businesses, people wear the same types of suits and those could be construed as uniforms.
Be careful about your assumptions.
Your ideas must be justified by raw data.
Don't edit out the raw data.
Don't hold on to percepts.
The moment a percept comes into your mind, no matter how minor it may feel to be, place
it in one of these columns.
You're going to put information in the AOL column.
If I have this idea of truck with no justification in these columns, metallic, low, moving, boxy,
then I can assume that it is not indeed a tangible, but instead AOL truck.
My imagination has taken a hold of the signal.
Don't arbitrarily place your pen in the AOL column.
Skip it because you're inviting AOL if you do that.
Think about what we're doing.
We're using our pen to direct where we want our unconscious at any given time.
We're exploring systematically, exploring the target or the site for these different
percepts, and we're objectifying them or writing them down in these columns.
If you place, think about what it means to place your pen in the AOL column, you're inviting
your own imagination to help you out, and that's what we don't want.
Remember, don't forget to declare your AOLs.
Any AOLs at any time.
Analytical overlay of the signal, the signal that emanates from the pattern of information
felt as an impulse, this is the signal.
Analytical overlay of the signal is the way we define this column.
What do we mean here?
When our unconscious, our personal unconscious mind, that portion of our mind, acquires data,
the data is acquired as a perception.
This perception has no word value, there is no word associated with the perception.
We must go from the right brain, our right brain modality, where we perceive the percept
to the left brain and look for, in our lexicon, in one's personal thesaurus, a word to give
a name to the percept.
If we have a perception and no name for that perception, what do we do?
For instance, one of the reasons it's difficult to teach technical remote viewing to young
children is because their lexicon is very small, they do not have a plethora of terms
available to them.
They have the ability, the same ability as an adult to perceive patterns of information
without any problem whatsoever, but they have no label to put on the percept.
So for instance, if a child were to remotely view a person who is grieving, the child may
not understand the idea nor have ever confronted the idea in their own experience of grief,
and so a small child might say, there is a man who feels bad, feels bad as close as
the child can come to what they are perceiving.
For us, when we run into that problem, at the pre-conscious level, our mind searches
for a term.
The level at which I am choosing my words right now is the pre-conscious level of our
mind.
I am not consciously choosing my words.
Why did I just say choosing instead of selecting?
There is an automatic process, just prior to conscious awareness, at the pre-conscious
level that decides which word to use.
It's at that level where my library or my lexicon, my personal lexicon, exists.
If I do not have a word for what I am perceiving, just like the example of the child, but I
know that I have the signal and I know that I am in structure and on target, I'll place
the next best word that I come up with in this calm.
I'll invite my imagination to help me out.
I will not try to struggle with defining the term.
For instance, if my target is a thermonuclear weapon and I'm seeking to determine what the
interior of the weapon looks like, the weapon design, I'm going to turn my attention to
the interior of the weapon and perhaps look at it just prior to its explosion when it's
arming itself, and my data may be metallic sounds, swishing as a sound, spinning as a
dimension.
So that would be a more or less a movement, dimension, a movement.
Oh, yes, all movements are here, spinning.
And then I may perceive it to be a vortex, but I'm not sure about vortex.
I'm pretty sure that I'm in the weapon.
I'm pretty sure I'm on target, but I'm not quite sure that it's like a vortex, and yet
it is, instead of pure AOL, I'll place it vortex in the AOL-S column.
It's close, but perhaps I just don't have it correct exactly, but it's like and similar
to a vortex, spinning, cylindrical.
And then my imagination may start to grab me, and I'll have an AOL of a water tank, which
is fine.
Imagination we're not trying to suppress imagination, or just trying to manage it.
That's all that we do, and it has its own equal value in our columns.
Make sure that you have something in the AOL column, or you can assume the worst, that
imagination has infiltrated into your data.
So this is a very healthy thing to see.
AI, how do I feel here?
I feel a little bit of anxiety, anxious.
It makes me feel anxious to be here.
This is a change in the way that I feel.
Emotions at the target?
None.
Tangibles, there is an object, and it is small, and it is, again, spinning and glowing.
And there's something going on here that reminds me of, the best that I can do is, this is
a situation that I'm in.
I'm right in the weapon now, it's arming itself, there's many things going on, and the whole
situation reminds me of a blender.
It's not really a blender, I know that, but it reminds me of a blender.
Whereas in AOL, you don't know the difference, it's like, I think it's probably a blender.
Right, well here, I know that, in my AOL column, I know that this is not a water tank.
Here, I know that the blender is not quite right, but it's the best that I can do.
It's the only word that I have to describe, the inside of this thermonuclear device as
it's arming itself.
And so, the best that I can do here is to put it, blender, and the analytical overlay
of the signal column.
I've asked my imagination to help me, and now I send it away again.
I highly recommend that as a new viewer, you stay to the left side, the left four columns,
as long as possible.
Try not to venture out into these two columns until your skills grow, because it's very
difficult for a new viewer to accurately determine whether something is real or imagination.
This is truth, this is accurate.
All of your stage one, two, and three data will get you here very gingerly and only very
carefully venture into the T in the I column until your skills grow, until you really can
distinguish between analytical overlay and a tangible thing itself.
Also critical item, for each one of your stage fours, stop at two thirds of the page down.
Do not go any further on your page.
If you begin at the top of a clean white piece of paper, don't go any further than the two
thirds mark, because you will not be able to stop imagination from taking over the session
at that point.
Your creative mind has waited long enough, and it is now going to jump in here in no
uncertain terms.
We frustrate our own imaginations in our creative analytical mind by stopping at the
two thirds point.
This way we have very trustworthy data.
After this point, we perform another movement to a different aspect of our sight.
That way, if our imagination has compiled a picture and is ready to drop that whole basket
of ideas on us, false ideas, we frustrate it and we make it drop the whole basket.
By stopping at the two thirds point.
Okay, stage four.
Stage four.
And put an X there, too, so it's easy to find that paper later on.
A, what's again?
S D, A I.
A I.
A I.
Ten to bulls and ten to bulls.
A well of the signal line.
Ten to bulls, A L, S.
S, first column set.
You're by locating.
White, brown.
Did you say white?
That's right.
White.
Okay.
Brown.
Dimpled.
Orange.
Square.
Enclosed.
Is that intangible?
Enclosed?
Enclosed is a D.
You're by locating.
The structure.
You're getting caught up in the target drama.
Don't do that.
Keep it clean.
AI, put your pen in the AI column.
What's going on inside of you?
Dump that as an aesthetic impact.
AI, something's going on.
I'm confused.
Okay.
Anything else?
No.
Okay.
Is that going away now?
Okay.
Okay.
Back to the X.
White, yellow.
Orange.
Bright.
Angles.
Square.
Enclosed.
Over.
Worry.
Intense.
Afraid.
Person.
Male.
Enclosed.
Confusion.
Is confusion an AI or an intangible idea?
It's an intangible idea.
An abstract idea.
It goes in the icon.
It's about the two-thirds mark.
Yep.
And back up.
Do you need a break before we move into...
Yeah.
A break at 12.02.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
The way that we frustrate imagination and analysis is stopped at the two-thirds point.
Right there.
We stop, and we move on and now explore another aspect, in this case, the next one in turn,
aspect A.
We apply the same process from the top-up aspect A, something should be perceivable, produce a new ideogram,
decode it, a new set of stage 2s that are attendant with aspect A,
a new analytical sketch based upon the dimensions that were derived here,
and two-thirds of a page of stage 4, this time on aspect A.
Don't forget to number your pages, by the way, when you do this.
Okay?
End of your exploration of aspect A, which is your second full exploration of a major,
a key element in your site, you're probably 20 to 22 minutes into the session,
around 20 minutes into the session, and that's a good time to take a break.
Stage 4 aspect A, break.
Note the time, put your pen down, stand up and walk around for three or four minutes.
You can even get a breath of fresh air, but don't just sit at the table.
Get up, get the blood moving in your legs so you can stay alert and refreshed.
This is a process that requires a high degree of attentiveness and alertness.
The higher, the more alert you are, the better your work is.
At the end of two or three minutes, or five minutes if you choose,
come back in and pick up your session again at aspect B.
With a movement exercise, of course.
From the top of aspect B, something should be perceivable.
When you perform a movement exercise, you regain extremely strong site contact again.
Always, always resume with a movement exercise.
In fact, write, resume at the top of your paper.
Don't forget your page number, whatever it may be.
Resume at whatever time it is from the top of aspect B, something should be perceivable.
New ideogram.
In fact, it's a multiple ideogram.
In other words, there's more than one gestalt present in this ideogram.
I'm not sure where one gestalt starts and stops and the other begins.
So I'm just going to decode all of the motion inherent in the ideogram.
Very important.
In this case, what did I feel my body do?
Horizontal across, peak, curving back.
Notice that I'm not looking at my ideogram and dissecting each of the line segments.
I'm not analyzing my ideogram.
I'm recapturing the way it felt to produce each part of the ideogram.
Don't forget this.
It's critical.
It's critical to the success of your session.
Curving back.
Curving out.
Peak again.
Curving around this time.
Curving up.
Angle.
Horizontal curving across.
I've recaptured all of the motion inherent in the ideogram.
All of the motion inherent in that particular gestalt.
A new set of stage 2s is required.
Another set of dimensions.
In this case, it will probably be complex, flat, open, angular, wide, curved, squat, oval.
These dimensions is now converted into a new stage 3 analytical sketch.
Each time you do a movement, this is the way you'll proceed through stage 3 to your analytical sketches.
Okay, let's resume on a new page at 12 or 7.
On page 7.
From the top of aspect A, something should be perceivable.
Curving down.
Angle.
Curving up.
Curving around.
Curving up.
Curving over.
Curving down.
Soft.
Nice 2s.
Green, blue, brown, aquamarine.
Water.
What's that?
Water.
As a texture.
Liquid.
Wet.
Wet.
Wet.
Wet.
AOL.
Breakwater.
Over here, where it happened right there.
AOL.
Water.
Smooth.
Smell and taste.
Salty.
Sweet.
Temperatures.
Humid.
Sounds.
Trickle.
Voices.
Dimensions.
Round.
Vast.
Immense.
Moving.
Over.
Outside.
Wide.
Thin.
Undulating.
Eyebrick.
Interesting.
Eight.
S3.
Analytical.
And submit A.
What's round?
What is that, the round?
Round.
Vast.
Immense.
moving, moving, overall, moving, outside, wide,
thin, undulating, undulating, undulating,
undulating, anything you'd like to add? Stage four, stage nine, stage four, aspect A,
S, D, A, I, E, I, tangibles, intangibles, A, O, L, S, grey, mauve, round, wide, thin, moving, moving,
undulating, A, O, break, river, A, I, lessen, interested, E, I,
pleased, content, hopeful, tangibles, people, meeting, intangible, important,
red, A, O, rose, dimensions, long, wide,
building, break building, enclosed, black, metallic,
metallic, A, O, S, box-like,
intimidated, hopeful,
each ten, movement, all that B, from the top of aspect B, something should be
perceived, horizontal, across, angle, curving up,
looping around, angle, curving up, semi-hard,
curving across, curving down, peak, horizontal across, hard,
S2s, black, grey, brown, metallic, rough,
hard, dense, angled, thin, moving, stripes, stripey, smells,
tastes, sweets, bitter, temperatures, humid, dimensions, long,
wide, thin, oval, oblong, edged, pointed, peak, round,
A, I, confused,
S3, analytical, aspect B, long, wide, thin, oval,
motion, oblong, edged, peak, round.
Wait, does the peak go vertical down like that? Do you need another piece of paper?
Label this 11A. Check one more time to see if it does that after the peak or if the edge of the paper made you do that.
It did make me do that. And the last one was round.
Anything else you want to add to that? Stage 4.
Stage 4, D, S, D, A, I, E, I, tangibles and tangibles, A, L, A, L, S,
blue, round, sweet, sugary, sweet.
Gotta get the sugary out. You can't keep it, you're editing.
A, L, sugary, dimensions, round, small, enclosed, edged, smooth.
Smooth is a sensation. It goes in the S-con. It's a texture.
A, I, worrying, worried, break, worried.
So it makes you feel worried.
E, I, unsure, afraid, lonely, tangibles.
Build, building, small, tangibles, far away, far away.
Classy, transparent, edged, object, object.
Small, like a table.
Is that A, L, S?
A, L, S, like a table.
A, I, S, strange, A, I, S, tangibles.
More time at the EI account. EIs take about six seconds to integrate, if there are any.
Temp, temper, temper, explosive, explosive temper.
Wanting, hungry, hungry.
Is that at EI?
Yeah.
Hungry.
There's a person, a female.
That's the two-thirds point.
From the top of aspect C, something should be perceivable.
Diagonal, up, peak.
Diagonal down.
Horizontal, across, and up.
Quad, S2s.
Black, brown, grey, green, rough.
Cold, smooth, flaky, crumbly.
Smells accurate.
Taste, nothing.
Sounds, voices, singing, dimensions.
Long, thin, peak, angle, wide, straight, diagonal, boxy, oblong.
A, I, familiar.
The other break, familiar.
14, S3 analytical aspect C. Long, thin, peak.
Angle, wide, straight.
Diagonal, diagonal, oblong.
Do you think I want that?
Um, motion.
Stage four.
15, S4 aspect C, SD, AI, EI, tangibles, intangibles.
Brown, metallic, AOL, break, rocket.
Dimensions, long, wide, thin.
Move, moving, AI, happy.
AI, drop fan.
AI, intense.
Tangibles, object.
Don't put brackets around that.
Intangibles, gray, black, square, inside, oblong, round.
Metallic.
Rooms, enclosed rooms.
Okay, enclosed, we go back over in the decon.
Enclosed.
Red, bright.
Light, hot.
Humid.
AI, worry, afraid.
That's people.
Okay, and let's move on to.
Move, aspect D.
Actually, I think I'd like to do a template early
and not explore aspects D and E.
I'd like to just go ahead with the template now.
Let's move on to an idea template on page 16.
Okay.
Okay, you paper that way, okay?
Okay.
You
You
