You
You
You
You
So we begin with
What is
Technical
Remote viewing
And the answer is one word
Sorry, it's not very neat
What is technical remote viewing technical remote viewing TRV is a
Any guesses science it is a science
It also is a science. That's not exactly the word I'm looking for
It is also that method procedure
These are typically the kind of answers that we get for this but in fact we like to call it a
skill
Technical remote viewing is a skill
Now for every skill we need a tool
So what is the tool that we use for this skill?
What is the tool that we use for this skill the mind yes, we use a mind more than that though
Absolutely have to have discipline
What's one word that will encompass it all the tool is the
Human you you're the tool and for definition
Sake so that we understand each other
Our model leans heavily on the concepts of dr. Carl Jung and we call
This tool the human psyche
And when I say psyche I mean to say all of you your body your mind your emotions
All of you everything that makes up you
That's what I'm referring to when I say psyche
Carl Jung was a rebel in his day
He wasn't accepted by the other psychiatrists because he believed that the human psyche
Also possessed the spirit and a soul
So I'm also referring to that when I say psyche
So how can we effectively understand the skill if we don't understand the tool first we have to understand the tool
So what is the human psyche?
Well our theory
Like I said leans heavily on that of Carl Jung
And we say all people are born
This is the model by the way. This is
equivalent to the blueprint
so to speak of
The human psyche
When we are born we're born with four major functions and the first function is
The physical
Now
Actually, the Chinese had discovered this a long long time ago and
The Chinese already had in the early 1800s and mid 1800s. They already had symbols to represent each function
And for the physical function the Chinese
represented it with
simply the earth
Now the physical function also includes our senses which is
sight
Sound
Taste
Smells
And touch so
Those are the senses of our body including our physicality our body
The section the second function that we're all born with is
The emotions
And the emotions are our emotional feelings happy sad mad
joy fear love and
Emotions as our model goes their job is to communicate to us how we feel about things and
the Chinese represented the emotions by
The ocean now not just water
It's specifically the ocean because the ocean ebbs and flows the ocean has an undercurrent
The ocean reacts to other things outside forces like planets
Therefore, it's specifically the emotions are represented by the ocean the third function
Is
The intellect and this is our thinking function
However, it's our thinking function in a very specific way the Chinese represented this
By a knife
Not a sword a knife because a knife chops and
And dices it slices it separates out it puts this information over here
This information over here, and this function is demonstrated in humans as early as a year
in
if a baby were locked in this room and
It would cry looking for help to try to get help and
if nobody came
They would instinctively
Go to the light, but if the window were too high up
They would look around and they would look for a way to get up to the light
Like perhaps rolling a chair over to the window sill climbing up and finding their way out
That's the intellect at work at a very young age
and the fourth function is the one that Carl Jung said before he died that we know the very least about and
that is
Instinct and he called this
Twofold instinct
Slash intuition and the Chinese also
Said yep, that's one of our four functions, and they represented it with a
tree
Why a tree well because they see evidence of this function
everywhere in fact
We see evidence of and even if we don't believe in it
we can always think of
How those times in our lives when we knew somebody was going to call
We were driving down the road, and we knew there was going to be an accident up on the next corner
We knew somebody was going to call
We knew a family member was going to die
So it's represented by a tree because we see evidence of it. However, we don't see the roots
We don't see from where it came
But we know it comes from somewhere and that's why it's represented by a tree
So these are our four major functions that we all are born with
This is just the basic of the human psyche. We have our conscious mind
Our conscious mind or conscious thinking
You see how it crosses over each function? Is this narrow line here?
This is our conscious
Mind
Or thinking
And this is our unconscious
This is our unconscious thinking or mind
Now our conscious mind is obvious. I think we all know what our conscious mind is
It's that small part of our mind that sort of leads us around in the world and thinks we know
Where to go and what to do and
What everything is all about
This smaller part. However, the unconscious mind is
Is like a memory database and the unconscious mind collects
Information at the unconscious level. So ever since we were born
Everything that we smelled tasted sought heard
Felt everything
It's stored in here
That's why hypnotherapy by the way has proven to be so successful
Because we can in some sort of altered state
Retrieve information we've found from our unconscious mind our library. This is our own personal library
Now there is an even narrower part around here that separates the unconscious mind from the conscious mind
It's a little thin area actually and this is called our pre
conscious
Processing
That's what I call it. That's what
Carl Jung calls it
And
Others may call it something else, but basically it serves the one function of it's like a filter
It's a good example of what this
Thinking does for us
In terms of filtering is if we're in a car accident
accident with a
with a daughter or a son or a small child and
We will if we're hurt and
Traumatized
This is what we would call the man at the liminal gate
The man at the liminal gate
Lives here in the pre conscious processing and he will stop
The trauma from filtering through to your conscious mind or your conscious thinking
He will hold it. He'll just hold it for a while because you have a job to do
You have to save the other person who's in the car
So
The man at the liminal gate your pre conscious processing
Actually will hold that event the event of the memory the emotional memory
The intellectual memory the physical memory of the impact
And perhaps even the instinctual one
That fleeting moment that you knew it was going to happen and you ignored it
So
After you save the other person in the car
Then when you're relaxed and sleeping at night probably this memory will all be dumped on you
on your conscious thinking
Here is
Our external environment
And here's our internal environment
So all of this is
Our internal environment and everything outside of it is our external environment
Now this is a blueprint and it's a blueprint of a system
So for every system that's living it has to have a rhythm and a movement
And as soon as we're born
It does have a rhythm and movement what do we do when we're first born besides scream of course
We breathe out
We breathe in
We breathe out
We breathe in
I'm sure you've heard of the term integration
Carl Jung speaks about our ultimate goal of growth is
To reach full integration and integration is when all four functions are swapping
information and experiences
In in harmony, there's an equal swap when you're presented with a problem for example being a fully integrated person
all four functions are going to participate in solving your problem and
Of course of the very basic to understand this would be hunger if
We're working in our office and it's getting to be lunchtime. We get a hunger pain
That's our physical function gives us a hunger pain. Oh, the system is getting hungry
Sands the message to your intellect your intellect says oh, I'm getting hungry
But I have the work to do should I get the work done first or should I run out and get food now?
I'll get the work done first. So your intellect decides to ignore the hunger pain
but in a little while
the emotions you start to feel anxious a little bit anxiety and
Suddenly you start having thoughts of fleeting thoughts or pitchers in your mind of
You know a delicious sandwich
Or something and that's the intellect imagining now for you saying hey the system is hungry
Okay, so you decide to get up and go out and find food
Now if you tend to be an intellectual oriented person that your MO is to actually
Analyze things first
You'll look one way and you'll say oh, there's more people over there. So I think I'll go over there
if you're a more intuitive type person you'll walk out and
And very much like the Aborigines do when they look for water you just automatically go with your body
Because this will lead you to the closest food
So the system works in harmony together all four functions to achieve a goal
That's integration and we are born incidentally with fully integrated
psyches
However, what happens to us in Western culture?
How come when we get to be in our 20s, we're not fully integrated anymore in
our culture for the most of us
because
When we start going to school we're taught go to school
Get good grades
Get good grades so that you can get a reward
Get a reward so you can buy things if you buy things you can be happy
You can go to college
You go to college
You can get a good job get a good job so that you can make good money
Get married have kids go on vacation
Our attention is always focused externally in Western culture
Everything that is going to make us feel better the solution to all of our problems in Western culture is
focused externally in Eastern culture it's
Practiced more inwardly or internally is to meditate and ideally of course you would have
Focus and attention outward focus and attention inward just like breathing
Actually, I didn't know when I used to give this lecture in hospitals that
There was a meditation that would say they would say listen to your breathing
Well, that is the natural rhythm of our psyche when when we breathe out our attention and focus goes up when we breathe in
Our attention and focus goes in
So this natural with rhythm Western culture has altered the natural rhythm of
our psyches that we were born with and
I did used to work in
emergency
Centers and the most common age that we would have people come in with nervous breakdowns and crises was
32
42 and 62
because this system
Cannot maintain itself
eventually it breaks down
eventually it fails and
the person realizes
When they're 32 or 42 usually that they're not happy no matter how externally focused they are
They're not happy. Not only that when they look inside
They've spent so little time there. They don't know what makes them happy
They don't even know who they are sometimes
So
There's a disease psyche and there's a healthy one an integrated one
What does this have to do with remote viewing a lot?
Why is it that in the years of it Ed and I have been teaching
We've been able to take anybody off the street and
Effectively teach them this skill this skill which for as long as history is told
It's never been teachable
It's never been learnable that you can be psychic you can be more psychic than the greatest
Psychic in the world more accurate more consistently accurate. Now. How can we do this?
Remember this is our unconscious this is our pre-conscious processing this is our conscious mind in remote viewing we assume
That there is a collective unconscious Carl Jung assumed it to
Collective
Unconscious and this is so to speak at a
library a huge
database
This is where all the information all the data that
exists with us corporately on
The planet here on earth and since humans have been around all the information that ever was
That is and it's a dynamic. It's a static library just like this blueprint
however, everything's stored here more or less like the library in books and
Some people call it the matrix
And some people call it the Akashic records. I've heard that before
Now you remember what these four functions do for you
Or at least the three of them that we know about the physical is our our senses our physical senses the emotions are
Our most our emotional feelings and our intellect is our analytical thinking. What about this one?
How come when you're driving along one day suddenly you just
Spontaneously know what's gonna be a block up
Now how come spontaneously?
You knew the phone was gonna ring
Well, we're going to assume that
This function is always
Connected always accessing the collective
Now our blueprint our book is up here, too
So we have to be connected in some way in shape or form
Let's assume that it it's this function. Remember the roots of the tree. Maybe the roots go up to the library. I
Like to call it the psychic dribble. It's always dribbling down
Now what do we do when we remote view well, it's actually a brilliant system that Ingo swan came up with
when Hal put off
Was trying to come up with a learnable trainable system at SRI
He became frustrated and he said to Ingo. Well
you
Come up with something then
An Ingo said
Okay
And he went home and he was born naturally psychic. In fact, he was considered to be at that time
the most gifted psychic in the Western world and
He went home and what he did was he turned his eyes inward
Very much like Carl Jung did when he studied the human psyche. He turned his eyes inward
He watched his own process and that's what Ingo did
He watched his own process and he came up with this brilliant system
By watching his own process
When you remote view when you technical remote view we ask you to
To sit down at the table with a stack of paper
We ask you to hold the pen. We ask you to be alert
not hungry and
Then we ask you to do to write information data down according to
The way that we tell you to
Okay, so
First off the bat. We're engaging your physical function. We're focusing the attention of your physical function here
Sit down right on the paper do it in order. Keep the pace and cadence up. Come on. You're going too slow
We're focusing this attention. It doesn't have time to do anything else
But to tend to the structure
We have another category in the protocols
Where we ask the emotional function to give us data in a specific way
we give you the terms and the words and
The time we ask for this data in order not out of order
Same here the intellect
We're focusing the attention of your intellect in a specific structured way
We're saying give it to us now and give it to us like this
We are demanding an order a system no longer is this sort of a spontaneous mess
No longer is the
Instinct intuition just going to dump it on you because that's what it does when this goes up to the matrix to the library
And it gets a book so to speak out of the library
It holds it right there holds it right here at the pre-conscious processing
Like the man at the liminal gate held your trauma. Well, it's got a big book here filled with data and
What it does is just dump it on you and it's too much for you to handle at once
You can't process all that information at once. So we lose a lot of it. That's why
Natural psychics when you get a psychic reading maybe 10% of what they say is right
They get bits and pieces they'll grab bits and pieces of it and the rest is lost and
In a few days, you're going to be able to
Remote view a target or a book in this library and we're going to give you just eight numbers
reference numbers to the book
Your conscious mind is not going to know
What in the heck you're going to or which book however your unconscious mind will know and
So we'll give you the numbers and let's say, okay, let's say that
It's more towards the end of the course and you've already learned advanced skills and
And let's say as I've done. Let's say I'm going to remote view Ed
Okay, I want the book of Ed
Say he's been gone all day and I'm wondering where he is and of course
We've given permission to each other to remote view the other as much as we want. We have no secrets and
So and I've done this
Ed will be gone all day. I wonder where is he? What's he doing? So I'll sit down with my paper and pen and I'll cue
the target
Ed
Am I going to cue it Ed?
present time I
can
However, I also have to realize that time and space falls out of the equation here
time and space only exists here in this physical world and
this here are
unconscious and
our
Intuition function and the collective unconscious time
Cholendrical time doesn't really mean anything
the book of Ed in the collective unconscious is an event
So a big part of learning how to remote view is actually learning how to cue
It's and learning how to cue is learning how this library is organized
We have to know how the books are filed
How they're named
Would we think of a person being an event?
Probably not
But we have to start looking at it like that because in the collective unconscious a person is an event
If I cue this target now Ed present time
My unconscious might go to him now. He usually does actually
but
every once in a while it won't and
in stage four
The book of Ed looks like this
Here's the beginning of Ed's life on earth
And here's the end of his life on earth
Let's say the book of Ed here's present time
However, when I drop in on Ed to see what he's doing right now, I drop in back here
Little boy, you know, and I realized oh, it's Ed. So I use a stage six advanced skill
And I move along the timeline
Up until the here and now
And I can find where Ed is
I can see how Ed feels
What he's looking at in fact when I did this one day. He was watching a movie and
I even got the movie
the type of movie and his kids and we're either side and
However, the question that and the reason why I use Ed as an example is because we are constantly asked this question
I bet you're thinking it now
Can we go past here?
Can we go this way?
I mean after all this is the library where everything was ever everything that ever was and will be a stored
I mean the book of Ed. Does it really just stop?
Here and here
Well, let me tell you about that. That's one of the limitations of remote viewing actually
We can go past here and before birth
But it begins the further into the future or back into the past that we go
It feels like we've just been dropped in a foreign country
And we've never heard the language before and we can't even begin to understand it
And that's what it feels like now we can sense and
We can feel that we're there
We can sense and feel that we are
Still there, but we can't understand it's like this system was built
specifically for us to manage ourselves around in this physical world in on earth and
Once we leave we leave the system behind we get a new one
So
Anybody have any questions
Visualization actually comes from the intellect it comes from imagination our intellect
imagine
so
It may not be the prompter of the imagination, but it actually is the function that constructs
the
The final product, which is say a visual and
Usually in remote viewing in technical remote viewing when you have a clear
Codochrome image like a photograph. It's it's the result of
Imagination and intellect at work on you trying to make sense of it
We've been led around by our intellects most of our lives
We we corporately as a Western culture have very highly developed intellects
This function corporately collectively is
Very highly developed. So is the physical in fact the emotional. Well, you guys are catching up
It's pretty well developed
However, this one the fourth one is the least developed and Carl Jung did say that before he died
He said at the turn of the next century after I'm gone. This is the one
That's gonna come into play. We're gonna see a collectively mankind discovering this fourth function
Oh
I
I like to review a complete TRV session
Intermediate skill level for you. This is how you'll conduct the session from start to finish
This is your checklist and you'll have a flow chart right next to you when you remove you use that flow chart
We're gonna go through from start to finish a typical remote viewing session now. This is an intermediate skill level session
first you'll have your
Target folder
If this is a front loaded session the target folder will be in front of you on the table and you'll see it if
It's a blind session the target folder will be in an envelope and only you'll only have the target reference numbers in front of you
You'll need the target name
That has to go on the folder
The name of the target definition of the problem
Target reference number
Two four-digit numbers
I just generated that
quasi random, but it doesn't matter all these are for administrative purposes only to identify
This particular target name with this particular number for your administrative files, and that's the only reason it's there
And away you go pan goes on paper
You
Wrote you write the target reference number on the paper in this case four three one six seven two
eight
Three and off you go that looks like a land ideogram, but whatever ideogram you get it requires decoding
This is stage one
Stage one I'll abbreviate s1
the
ideogram
Motion and the feeling
After you produce that go back into your checklist stage two
Moving right through your checklist colors
Where are colors they're in your head
You're picking them out right by virtue of producing an ideogram
You already have the colors that are associated with the site in your head not going anywhere to get them
If they're there they're there they're not they're not colors
The colors run out and there's a three to four second gap move on to textures
Think of a metronome piano click click click a metronomic pace as you proceed through stage two colors
textures smells
Tastes
Temperatures
Sounds if you can't identify a particular class of sensory impression
You've got something and you just don't know how to describe it simply place you I on your paper for unidentified
If there's nothing there at all in that particular category no smells for instance
No smells that a long dashed line and move on
dimensions
What's around you you'll have no idea of the target but dimensions are there what goes like this and how does it go?
fast open long and narrow
What kind of verticals are around you if any is there anything that's high medium or low all subjective impressions?
subjective purely subjective
And finally how does the site make you feel? What is your aesthetic?
impact
That's the end of stage two. We move directly into stage three
S3 your first s3 sketch the freehand sketch
This is your body's rendition of the site all of the key aspects
expressed in symbolic abstract form
Depend upon your body to do this slow and deliberate but not more than about 15 seconds to complete this
The next thing you do is
Ask yourself is there a significant
aspect
Is a point on your freehand sketch
Intuitively does it feel more significant than other points or is there a point on your paper between the aspects?
It feels more significant. Where does my hand want to go there's something here?
Place an X at that point
Where you intuitively sense that something is more important or more significant than the other aspects and call that your target
Next
Label
Other key aspects
For instance
Here's my target
Here's a typical stage three sketch freehand sketch. I've identified my target already and here are some other aspects that I'll call key a
B
C and
D
All easy to identify these are generally separate from each other
This is the language of the unconscious separates out the meaning in the context
You've labeled other all the key aspects. You've identified a target now. It's time to perform a movement
And
We'll begin almost always with the target itself
Let's go right to the crux of the matter that we'll start with the target
What are our safe movement exercises again the safe movements are?
From the top of the target something should be perceivable from
The top of aspect a b cd, etc
Something should be perceivable. Those are your basic movements. They are the safe ones at this juncture
In higher skill levels, you'll be taught many other types of movements when your skills improve
Movement first top of the target target
Next you'll have an ideogram again and then stage two more stage twos including dimensions
Dimensions that are now inherent in the target itself not various aspects of the site
We've turned our attention to the top of the target. This is your new perspective
We've isolated where our unconscious is perceiving a pattern of information at the site to the target itself
We take the dimensions at the end of our new stage two list the dimensions that appertain to the target and
We convert them into a stage three analytical sketch
Let's say our dimensions at the end of the stage two list were long, wide, cylindrical, and hollow
We're now going to create an analytical sketch
By sketching this time our conscious mind will get involved our aware mind is now going to get involved
So notice that on the freehand sketch it did not now we're going to get involved in sketching and adjudicating this information correctly
I'm going to sketch what I feel is a good representation of long
I'm going to work out the dimensionality of this target. There's something here that is long. Does that feel long enough?
Yes
Where's the wide the wide is wide this way or why I think it's wide this way. Here's the wide that way
cylindrical is where cylindrical is this is cylindrical feels like the cylindrical is here and the hollow the hollow is in here
Whoops AOL must be a tube and the tube must be a pipe. My analytical mind is quickly getting involved in the problem
I just dump those impressions as AOL. I throw those ideas into the trash by writing AOL to AOL pipe. In fact, we have no idea of what this is
Nor will we ever if we allow our conscious mind to try to second guess the nature of the solution to the problem
Only our unconscious mind can know because it's already at the target and the problem is getting the correct data through our wooden heads
Stay in structure. So here we have our first analytical sketch of what of the target
All right, we now have an analytical sketch of the target. Move into stage four, number your page, write your stage four column headings on the top of the page
Eight columns go through your stage four table writing data about don't forget to declare AOLs when they arise when you reach the two-thirds point of your page
That's it's time to end the stage four. If you choose at this point to take a two or three minute break, you may otherwise perform another movement
This time choose one of the aspects that you label as a key aspect, perform a movement from, for instance, from the top of aspect D, something should be perceivable
That will produce a new ideogram, will require new stage twos after you decode the ideogram with the motion and the feeling
New set of stage twos, new dimensions that will appertain to this key aspect itself, a new analytical sketch, a new stage four that pertains again to this aspect
A new set of data, two-thirds of the page, and so on for all of the key aspects that appeared in your freehand sketch
So what is all our work at this point produced? It's produced analytical sketches for the target, aspect A, B, C, D, and E
Next, on a clean sheet of paper, don't forget to number your page, we have our idea template
Starting in the center of the page, ask yourself again, sense intuitively, where is the information that's present here symbolically in our analytical sketch, where is that, the reference to the center of the site?
It feels like it's over here, take the information off of your analytical sketch, take all of the new data that you've sketched, your new symbols, place them here at that location, and this is your target
Where is aspect A? Aspect A is here, and so on, target, A, find the other aspects, their relative locations, one to another, determine their relationship in space, their relationship at the site
Place them on your idea template
By the way, these are larger circles than the circles that are here on my target, these could represent groups of people instead of merely individuals, these may be individuals, and because I've sketched these larger, these could be groups of people
After you've placed all of your analytical sketching data on your idea template, go back and look at your stage 4 data, associated with each one of these
What is the S4 data associated with the target? Write it down on the idea template, here are people, here is a structure, etc.
What are the emotions present here of any? There were no emotions. What was my AI here? I felt secure here, write it down, my AI was secure, and so on, for all of the other aspects
The idea template is an overview of your site, here are the symbols that represent things at the site, in each area, each area juxtaposed one to another, here on the idea template
We can now derive a great deal of information about the nature of our site, as well as the relationship of the target to the rest of these other aspects
So, we're going to now summarize our data, but before we summarize, be sure to write end right here at the bottom of your idea template and note the time
When you end the session, remember never go back and modify or change in any way any of the data that you derived as a result of staying in TRV structure
Don't change your data, you are no longer in structure, your data can no longer be relied upon to be truthful
Write a summary, using the data that's in your TRV session only, write a summary that first describes the site, then the target, and finally the other elements
In this case, data about the other aspects that you picked up in your freehand sketch
When you write your summary, we first want a description of the site itself
Your idea template has laid out a site, what kind of a site is this? Is this the interior of a structure?
Is this outside? If it's outside, what kind of land, what kind of terrain are we talking about? What kind of climate are we talking about?
The site is an open area with rolling terrain that is sandy or gritty, it is hot and dry here, good description of a site
Now, we turn our attention to the target, how do we know what the target is?
First of all, in order to identify the target, we look at our first page of our session, that first ideogram
What did that ideogram look like? Where is it in our stage 3? That's your target
We want to be able to identify the target, the target is a structure, or the target is a person, or the target is a group of people, or a few people
Or the target is an area itself, within an area
We'll be able to identify that by virtue of having explored it using a movement exercise and associating stage 4 data with that movement
Go on to describe the other elements that are present at the site
Take your time with the summary, be very careful with it, careful to use only the data that's present in your work, here and in your stage 4s
Then go back into your summary one more time with a fine tooth comb and asking yourself, do I trust all of this data?
Is there anything here that I don't feel really secure about? Is there anything in my data, in the summary, that I don't trust, that I will not stand by?
Eliminate those terms from your summary, cross them out
What's left is a summary of all of your work that you'll stand by
Walk away, come back ten minutes later, begin your analysis
We're going to analyze our data by starting out with intelligent guesses about what's happening here, if there's anything happening at all
What does this idea template represent in the intelligent world?
Well, maybe it seems to me that it's something akin to a riot based upon my first swag
But then again, it could be a war, or maybe a fire, or an explosion, maybe a volcanic explosion
Am I imagining? My creative imagination is working right now, that's exactly what we wanted to do
Our creative imagination is going to help solve the problem
So we want our creative imagination here, and we want it out of the room, here, volcanic eruption
So by process of elimination, we're now going to take a look at these possibilities, these intelligent guesses, and see if we can eliminate any
So, I'm going to start with this volcanic eruption, which was a shaky guess at best
Could it be a volcanic eruption? Not really, I never really did get heat and ejector and anything else that would be recognizable as a volcano
And I didn't even get a mountain ideogram anywhere else, unless the volcanic eruption was from the surface
But really, there wasn't anything like that in my data that suggested that, so bad guess, that goes out
What about a riot? Hmm, people were running all around, and there was a big open urban area, and there were feelings of angst and anger and fear
Yeah, I'll stick with riot as a possibility
How about a war? Hmm, same feelings were prevalent
I didn't pick up the idea of uniforms or soldiers or tanks, but I really didn't look for them
So, still, it could be a war too
What about a fire? Well, there did appear to be something like that going on
But all the feelings that I picked up from the people, they were mostly fear and angst
I didn't pick up a lot of, but I also picked up hatred and anger
That really doesn't fit the scenario of a fire in the city
It's getting a lot of hatred and anger, and I felt like, I felt angry too
But I don't think fire is right
So we're left with these two guesses, we're either dealing with a riot or a war
If this were a training target, and someone slipped us a training target that was a riot or a war
We're now left with the decision, which one is it?
And so, with these two guesses left on the board, we'll refine our targeting and re-engineer a new search strategy
We'll go back in, perform another remote viewing session tomorrow, or tonight, or at least two hours later
Starting with a new movement exercise, or we'll go all the way back into stage one
And perform the entire remote viewing session again, to double check our earlier work
What's life and what's life?
What's life?
What's life?
What's life?
This is a topical search. I'm going to work a front-loaded topical search
I created this queue, I created the search term, because it's something that I'm personally interested in
The search term is the Holy Grail
I am interested in the Holy Grail. What is the Holy Grail?
Historically, we're told many things about it, and the ideas associated with it
I don't know if it is real or not, and we're going to find out through a series of remote viewing probes
So I created it, obviously it's front-loaded, since I'm working it and I created the queue
I don't have a picture, I don't want to use any target reference material whatsoever
I want to go into this clean, although I have preconceived notions about this
Because of my conditioning as a Westerner, I had the idea that the Holy Grail might be something like a chalice or a cup
So I'm going to bring those ideas to the table here, but throw them out as soon as I put my pen on the paper and go into the TRB structure
I'm going to manage the AOLs when they arise and declare them
And I expect AOLs to pop up from time to time having to do with a chalice or a cup
They may not, but they probably will
The Grail may be merely an idea
It may be a physical thing and ideas associated with it that are very embedded in the collective unconscious
Or it may be several different items
The only way I'm going to find out is to conduct a series of remote viewing probes and collate the data and see what I'm dealing with
I'll let the collective unconscious tell me what the Grail is
And therefore, this first search will be a technical remote viewing probe against the Holy Grail
And I'm about to begin
So, let's do it
Name the age of the 13th
And I'm starting at 6.55pm
And away we go
9, 1, 6, 2, right by the book
7, 4, 8, 3
Okay
Curving up
Over
Down
Under
Airy
Moving, moving, diagonal, curving across
And the thing that's making the motion is hard
7, 4, 8, 3
Looping around
And across
Airy
Wavy, vertical, up
Soft
I'm going to take it again, particularly because I'm working by myself
9, 1, 6, 2, 7, 4, 8, 3
I have good Stage 1 contact now, looping across
Semi-soft
Diagonal across
Angle
Diagonal across
Hard
Stage 2
Black
Light
Grey
Shiny
Down
Semi
Airy
Clean smell
Metallic taste
Cool
No sounds
Diagonals
Peat
Flat
Vertical
Medium
Sense of space
Open and close
AI
A little strange
Stage 3
Alright
A
B
I'm not sure if I know what these gestaltes are, I'm not even sure if this is motion
So I'm not going to...
I don't know which of the 11 gestaltes I've got here, if any
I'm not going to take any chances either
So I'll just have to do some movement exercises and get better contact
Stage 4
The top of the target
Something should be perceivable
Curving vertical up
Curving over
Curving down
Soft
Diagonal across
Peak
Horizontal across
Hard
Stage 2s
Lack
Shiny
Hell
Filming
Mary
Stale
Stale taste also
Cool
And stuffy
Unidentified sound
Vacant as a dimension
Open and close again
Angular
Tight
Foxy and AOL break
The TV monitor
In the corner of this room
With me in it
Alright
AI's
Bit tense
And nervous
And strange
Okay
Now
In S3, another little sketch of the target
I have vacant
Vacant
Vacant
Open and closed
Now
Open and close
Angular
And tight
Tight
And there is emotion
Okay, stage 5
Stage 4 of a target
STI
Horizontal
VAR
Just
Light
Airy
Vacant as a dimension
Transparent
Expansive
And AOL break
Expanding
Sort of a stream of consciousness
Clear
Bright
Opening
Idea of dimensional
Faroo
Foxy
Angular
Small
AOL break, wooden
From the Idea box
AI's
AI break, interested
AI's
Waiting
Not funny
Humor
AI will sing a like
Funny
That's my 2 thirds mark
Stage 6
Aspect A
Here we go from
The top of
Aspect A
Something should be perceivable
This one first
Moving
Diagonal
In
And down
Semi-soft
Diagonal up
Curving over and around
Semi-soft
Diagonal curving down
Airy
And soft
Stage 2's
Clear
Transparent
Pink
Rose, colored
Airy
No smells
No taste
Ambient
Temperature
Something
Even if it's a sound, it sounds like unidentified dimensions
In and through
Open
Vacuous
Diagonal
Boxing
AI break
Interesting
Diagonal sketch of Aspect A
Back
Back and forth
Diagonal
Long
Vacuous
Open
In
And through
And I'm going to have to put an AOL here of me.
8
S4
I'm going to look over there, the signal man
Through, as I mentioned
Moving
As a dimension and motion as an idea
Traveling as an idea
Through again
AI break
Excited
Anticipative
The eyes
Waiting
Tangibles
And intelligence
Intangibles
Watching
Receiving
Arriving
AI break
Metaphysical stuff
The opening
Form
The T column
I better be careful, that's the two-thirds mark.
There's one more aspect to explore, and that's B.
Before I put together a template, I think I'll take a break
for a three-minute break at 6.14.
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Okay, page 9, I'm going to resume at 6.20, resume 6.20.
And that would be with the movement on aspect B.
And here we go. From the top of aspect B,
something should be perceivable.
Curving, diagonal, down.
Curving, diagonal, up and over.
Gap, vertical, down.
Arri, probe the gap.
Arri, semi-hard.
Stage 2's black.
Brown.
AI will break me now, at this moment.
Yellow, grey.
Nice smell, stale taste.
Cool.
No sounds.
Around, whatever that means.
Surrounding.
AI will break enveloping.
Loosening.
Expanding.
Spreading.
AI break.
And thrall.
And stimulated.
Page 10, S3, analytical sketch of aspect B.
Around.
Sort of the motion goes off that way.
Surrounding.
Surrounding.
Loosening.
It's mostly this way though.
Loosening.
Spreading.
That way and that way.
Spreading.
Spreading.
Did I get expanding? No.
Yeah, I got expanding.
Loosening, spreading, expanding.
Expanding is more this way.
Expanding.
Expanding.
That's it.
There's something.
Something.
Here.
Okay.
Page 11, S4 of aspect B.
AI.
Intangible.
Okay.
Yellow.
Pale.
Spherical.
Yeah, I break.
Strange.
EIs.
Strange.
You'll break again me now.
Smaller.
EIs.
Content.
Fulfilled.
Intangibles.
Light.
Light as a tangible.
Intangibles.
Existence.
Existing.
Existing.
Existence.
Existence.
AI break.
Overwhelmed.
Overwhelmed.
Okay, back to the left.
Overwhite.
Bright.
Omnipresent as a dimension.
Omnipresent as an idea.
Idea of all over.
And idea of transformation.
No, it's transforming.
Transforming.
Transforming and AOL break transformation.
Formation.
Okay.
So, T and B, that's B.
So, this is the scaffolding that I needed to get here on this target.
And here's my idea template.
So, the target is somehow there.
There, there, there.
Here, and there is motion.
This is tight, vacant, and angular.
Are there any stage fours that I can tack on here
that I feel are pertinent, vacant, expansive, clear, bright, open?
The idea of dimensional as an eye.
Dimensional.
And EIs of waiting and humor.
Where are they?
This way.
There's an EI here of waiting as an emotion.
Instead of an intangible idea of waiting and humor.
And it's clear, bright, transparent.
It's transparent in here.
Okay.
Not much else.
And the A is this.
And if I look at that, they're pretty much the same thing.
More of the same.
So, I'll overlay these and fit them together.
And I have an additional aspect of this.
And instead of through, I get the idea of through.
It's in and through.
This time through is this way.
Through.
Through.
This is open, vacant.
Moving back and forth.
All right.
Stage four data associated with that.
With aspect A is AIs of excited and anticipative.
Where do I feel that right here?
I have an AI that makes me feel excited and anticipative.
And I have EIs again of waiting and joy.
And they're back here a little bit further.
Yeah, waiting and joy.
A tangible of an intelligence, an idea of intelligence.
And that's back here.
I'm going to label that a T, so I don't forget that.
And then tangible ideas of watching and receiving.
And arriving.
And there is a form as a tangible to form.
There's a form here.
But I don't know what the form is.
I didn't discern a form.
I had the idea of a form.
And I put it down as a tangible.
OK, my last key aspect is B. And B is here.
And this motion there.
And there's, that's the type.
That's right, the round.
There's an around here.
There's a loosening.
A loosening and a spreading.
It's contained now, begins here.
And it goes this way.
And spreads this way, but still contained.
And I have to write that down.
Here, contained.
Expanding around, loosening, spreading.
OK.
And lastly, my attendant stage four is spherical.
This is spherical.
And it gives me the A.I. of strange.
And E.I.s of strange.
The E.I.s, the E.I. is here.
The emotions are here.
And those are strange.
And I'm getting the A.O.L. again as I do this,
that the A.I. equals the E.I.
which means that this is me.
A.O.L. break me.
OK.
A.I.s also of content, fulfilled, are important.
If I'm ever going to make sense out of this,
which is questionable.
A.I.s of overwhelmed, and that's this.
Overwhelmed.
A.I.s of omnipresent.
And that is, that's back.
No, it's everywhere.
So, I just have to put it everywhere.
Here, and here, and here.
Omnipresent.
Tangibles of light.
Where's the light?
The light is in here.
And it's, this is pale yellow light.
And this is white.
Here.
And again, there's a general motion of that way.
That's it.
S4 and one and a half.
The white light comes, this moves this way.
And that's the, what did I say that was?
That is the through.
The white light moves through.
The pale yellow light moves in.
I have to put that down as a narrative.
It was just too much to try to break up.
And experienced viewers can do that.
But it's not advisable for inexperienced viewers.
It leads to AOL.
The idea as an intangible idea of existing.
Existing.
Where is this idea in here?
It's through, it's just throughout.
And it's in here, but it's connected with the omnipresent.
I'll put it all over here.
Existing.
And that's connected with omnipresent.
And then light again.
Omnipresent.
All over.
And transform.
Transform happens here.
And this thing becomes light.
And it moves that way as it enters here.
And that goes, I better end this and write a summary.
I'm going to end it at 740.
And summarize this data.
And my summary is the following.
The site is a place or dimension, or both in general terms,
where something, this something,
is moving into a channeled, directed shoot.
I can't use the word shoot.
A channeled, directed, I would say vector for right now.
This is a difficult one.
The something that is moving appears to be associated with life.
And perhaps myself.
This something, I like a better word,
quickly becomes, quickly, no, this something,
that is made up of a pale yellow light,
is quickly overcome by incoming omnipresent white light
moving in the opposite direction down this vector.
And then becomes it, becomes the light itself
at the other end, or like a better word,
that would have to be explored at the other end of this vector,
is a form that is not discernible,
or at least I couldn't discern it in session,
where the form that is not discernible, say that,
is waiting, watching, receiving.
And it is intelligent and joyful.
The moving, what do they call it, the moving something,
i.e. me at some level, has feelings of being overwhelmed,
content, fulfilled, and transformed.
Did I say that?
I sure did.
Transformed, transformed.
The white light moves through the pale light,
and I don't know what else to say about this,
except the summary, and I'll have to move on to an analysis,
page 14, so I'll take a break for a moment,
and then analyze my work.
Okay, analysis.
Well, first of all, I'm dealing with something
that I'll call, for lack of a better word, existential.
Nothing's easy, and existential, something.
And this does not feel like mind, it feels like soul,
idea of soul, that's my guess.
Soul moving, moving towards an intelligent,
something, form, form.
And my other guess is that this other form
may actually be this, as a guess,
that this may become this, rather than something else being here,
that this becomes this.
And that is connected with the idea of transformation.
So what was my, my target was the Holy Grail,
and I ended up with nothing that I could touch, dimensionally.
There's nothing solid.
I am Ontario Incognito.
It appears to be, I have ideas of dimensionality,
and nothing, everything is existential.
And it appears, this particular session
appears to involve myself, instead of my mind,
it appears to involve what, for all intents and purposes,
is my own soul.
Moving toward an intelligent form,
but the idea is, it's not another form.
It's the idea of my soul changing, or changing.
It's my soul, or my being, or something like that, changing.
And the other thing is that this, the reason I,
the reason I, I'm, I would hang my hat on this idea of transformation,
is that this form down here, that I said might be the outcome
of this motion here, is different than this omnipresent idea
that's over here.
This omnipresent is something that doesn't have a form,
but has a presence that's all over,
and has some degree of, some type of an intelligence.
But this, and, and it's outside of this channel, or chute.
So that's why I tend to think that, that whatever is waiting here
is, is, is not God, or is not something else.
It's, it's the future, or the, the actual transform,
the soul itself, being, being within this other dimension.
It's difficult to put into words.
And let's see, did I stay in structure?
I never did get an AOL of, of a cup.
I had a hidden intent.
I had a, another agenda going in here.
It was actually an unspec, an unstated desire, or an unstated goal.
And that was to find a grail that was the cup,
and mount a technogram of viewing geographic search
to go and find the cup itself.
That's what I would, that's the idea that I had
when I started this topical search.
But I'm not dealing with an object, at least in this probe.
I may have an object in other probes.
I don't know.
We won't know until we actually do the work,
collate the data, and allow the unconscious itself,
the matrix, to define the problem.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
